---
title: 2024-07-29
date: 2024-07-29
tags: 
- newsletter
author: HeadlineCapsule
aliases: 
- /HeadlineCapsule/daily/2024-07-29
---


# Trump and Harris: The Battle Lines are Drawn


In a shocking turn of events, Donald Trump's life was threatened in an attack that left him shaken but unharmed. As he recovers from the ordeal, his presidential campaign has taken on a new tone – one of urgency and defiance. Meanwhile, his Democratic opponent, Kamala Harris, has been honing her attacks on Trump's record, emphasizing the threat he poses to Americans' basic freedoms.


## The Gloves are Off: Trump Unleashes Fury


Trump briefly called for "unity" in American politics after the attack on his life, but it seems those niceties were short-lived. In a recent speech, he suggested that maybe he's gotten worse, not better, and that he gets angry at the incompetence he witnesses every day. This new tone has left many wondering what to expect from Trump's campaign going forward.


## Harris Closes in on Trump: New Polls Show Tightening Race


Despite initial doubts about her chances, Kamala Harris is showing signs of closing the gap with Donald Trump. A recent ABC/Ipsos poll found that more voters view her favourably than unfavourably, and some swing state polls have shown a tighter race. As the Democratic convention approaches, it's clear that Harris has momentum on her side.


## The Battle for America's Future: What's at Stake


As the presidential campaign heats up, it's becoming increasingly clear what's at stake. Trump and Harris represent two fundamentally different visions for America's future – one rooted in division and fear, the other in hope and unity. As voters go to the polls, they'll be deciding not just who will lead the country, but what kind of country they want to live in.

---

Chinese state-owned financial institutions are cracking down on bonuses and pay, following Beijing's broadened scrutiny of the finance industry. Mutual fund managers have been told to return excess annual salaries (up to **Rmb2.9mn/$400k**), while Hong Kong-based executives at state-owned banks and investment firms have had their bonuses clawed back. This pressure is part of a nationwide campaign for "high quality development" and "common prosperity". The move reflects China's President Xi Jinping's emphasis on technology and manufacturing over finance, and the country's tightening controls on state-owned financial conglomerates.

NatWest is suing CMIS, a former General Motors unit, for €155mn over securitisation deals struck in the run-up to the financial crisis. The disputes relate to agreements made by ABN Amro with GMAC, which were designed to manage financial risks associated with securitized residential mortgages. However, CMIS has failed to pay sums due since 2017, according to NatWest's lawyers. CMIS claims it is in a state of run-off and lacks funds to pay the claimed amount. The bank seeks €155mn plus interest. **[€155mn](#)** [NatWest](https://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natwest) [CMIS](https://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/CMIS)

Roche plans to fast-track its anti-obesity drugs to challenge rivals Eli Lilly and Novo Nordisk in the booming market. The company's weight-loss pill showed a 6.1% reduction in weight compared to a placebo after four weeks, with promising data sent shares up 6%. Roche aims to have "around seven" drugs from an acquired biotech, with several in early development. The obesity market is expected to surpass $130bn by 2030, and Roche will need to catch up with the two incumbents developing stronger treatments. **Weight loss pill**, **Roche**, **Eli Lilly**, **Novo Nordisk** are key entities in this article.

The Federal Reserve is expected to keep interest rates steady at 5.25-5.5% but set the stage for a potential rate cut as early as September. The Fed's preferred inflation gauge has eased to 2.6%, below its 2022 peak, and the labour market has softened. Economists expect the Fed to acknowledge these developments in their revised policy statement and press conference. The central bank aims to maintain a healthy labour market and is cautious not to cut rates too soon or too late. A rate cut could be triggered by further slowdowns in hiring and inflation. **[Important]**

Embraer aims to double its revenues from regional and business jets by the end of the decade, with a $10bn sales target. The company is focused on selling its existing products, including the E195-E2 model that can carry up to 146 passengers. Embraer's CEO, Francisco Gomes Neto, stated that while they have considered entering the market for single-aisle aircraft, there are no concrete plans at present. Industry analysts suggest that any future move would require a partnership with another company due to Embraer's smaller size compared to Airbus and Boeing.

Azerbaijan, host of the UN COP29 climate summit, has failed to tackle gas flaring, with emissions reaching a decade high in 2023. According to analysis by Global Witness, gas flaring at oil and gas installations in Azerbaijan increased by 10.5% since 2018. Facilities operated or owned by BP and state oil company Socar saw significant increases in flaring, despite pledges to eliminate the practice by 2030. The activity has gone largely unnoticed due to Azerbaijan's six-year delay in reporting emissions data.

Olympus Partners has sold Soliant, a healthcare and school staffing company, for over $2bn, marking a rare profitable exit from their buyout stockpile. The sale will net Olympus a $2.2bn profit, about six times its initial equity investment. This is a bright spot in an otherwise muddled environment for private equity exits. Soliant was initially bought by Olympus in 2020 for $612mn and has grown rapidly, particularly during the pandemic when schools turned to its services to find remote staff. The deal comes as buyout shops face pressure from investors to understand when their capital may be returned.

Euronext, Europe's largest stock exchange operator, is on the lookout for further acquisitions to solidify its position in the region's capital markets. CEO Stéphane Boujnah has stated that combining Euronext with a large European exchange could create significant synergies. The company has already expanded through acquisitions, including Borsa Italiana and Clearstream. Boujnah has expressed interest in acquiring Nasdaq's Nordics business and the Spanish exchanges BME from SIX. Euronext's revenue grew 12% YoY to €413mn in Q2.

Foreign officials are working to de-escalate tensions between Israel and Hizbollah after a deadly rocket attack from Lebanon into Israeli-occupied territory. The attack killed 12 civilians, mostly children, in the town of Majdal Shams on the Golan Heights. Israeli leaders vowed to retaliate forcefully, but Western allies condemned the attack and urged restraint. The US, UK, and France called for de-escalation and criticized Hizbollah's attacks. Diplomats in Lebanon are working to prevent further escalation, with the Lebanese government condemning all acts of violence against civilians. International envoys criticized the attack and called for a halt to hostilities between Israel and Hizbollah. **[Key entities: Israel, Hizbollah, US, UK, France]**

---

### WORLD

- [Venezuela’s authoritarian leader Nicolás Maduro declared election winner](https://ft.com/content/dd6f8130-7400-4078-964d-23d9abf12dc6)🔥🔥
- [EU prepares two-step trade plan to tackle Donald Trump  ](https://ft.com/content/9b1f982a-485c-4868-9a03-b7e58a6f5746)🔥
- [UN climate summit host Azerbaijan fails to tackle flaring, analysis shows](https://ft.com/content/374762d3-9169-4423-8a3e-6f262491b3fb)
- [Foreign officials race to de-escalate tensions after Golan Heights attack](https://ft.com/content/522c5367-f46d-4a21-b448-669cdda16efe)😶

### US

- [Kamala Harris raises $200mn in first week of presidential campaign](https://ft.com/content/5ad46c5c-6289-4af0-91be-121f2809a9e0)🔥🔥🔥
- [Federal Reserve expected to keep interest rates steady but to tee up September cut](https://ft.com/content/5cda73be-e155-40ea-8b5c-c4dabd8b9c1e)

### COMPANIES

- [China’s state-owned funds and lenders claw back pay and bonuses](https://ft.com/content/c0d3a55e-099a-4009-9b92-4579310b2517)
- [NatWest sues ex-GM unit for €155mn over financial crisis-era deals](https://ft.com/content/65431d08-6a1e-4d12-9549-61575fb79245)
- [Roche to fast-track weight loss pill to compete with rivals](https://ft.com/content/9c45008d-cd9d-478c-b925-fae180defa03)
- [Embraer banks on regional jets to double revenues by end of decade](https://ft.com/content/e3edc599-8ee5-448f-b05f-8c89fb658bcb)
- [Olympus’s $2bn Soliant sale is rare profitable exit from buyout stockpile](https://ft.com/content/b60251f3-3b3c-4051-bae3-23ec5dedf6d5)
- [Euronext ‘ready to strike’ with further acquisitions](https://ft.com/content/1a318354-a292-4ed8-bf14-d27fcc9fddcb)

