---
title: 2024-08-01
date: 2024-08-01
tags: 
- newsletter
author: HeadlineCapsule
aliases: 
- /HeadlineCapsule/daily/2024-08-01
---


# Economic Shifts and Technological Advancements
The global economy is experiencing a significant shift with major players making bold moves to stay ahead of the curve.

## Federal Reserve Signals Possible Interest Rate Cut
The Federal Reserve has indicated that it may lower interest rates as early as September, marking a potential shift in its monetary policy. This decision comes after US policymakers voted to maintain borrowing costs at a 23-year high for the eighth consecutive meeting. Fed Chair Jay Powell stated that "a reduction in our policy rate could be on the table as soon as the next meeting in September," citing progress towards lowering inflation to the target rate of 2%.

## Bank of Japan Raises Interest Rates
In a surprise move, the Bank of Japan has raised its benchmark interest rate to 0.25%, marking a significant shift in its monetary policy. This decision is expected to narrow the interest rate gap with the US and strengthen the yen. The bank also announced plans to halve its monthly bond purchases by the spring of 2026.

## Meta's Revenue Growth Reassures Investors
Meta has reported a 22% increase in revenue, beating analysts' expectations and reassuring investors about the company's future prospects. Mark Zuckerberg attributed the growth to strength in the core advertising business, which will enable the company to continue investing heavily in artificial intelligence. The company also announced plans to develop smart glasses that could potentially overtake mobile devices as the next computing platform.

These three articles highlight significant shifts in the global economy and technological landscape. While the Federal Reserve is considering lowering interest rates to combat inflation, the Bank of Japan is taking a contrarian approach by raising interest rates to strengthen its currency. Meanwhile, Meta's revenue growth is driven by its core advertising business, which will enable the company to invest in emerging technologies like artificial intelligence.

---

Bill Ackman has withdrawn the proposed public listing for closed-end fund Pershing Square USA, a huge about-face from his previous predictions of it being one of the largest IPOs ever. The collapse caps a dramatic stretch for the billionaire hedge fund manager, who had envisioned the company as a bedrock in public markets and a member of the S&P 500. Demand for the IPO did not materialize, with concerns raised by investors that the fund might trade at a discount to its net assets. #PershingSquareUSA #IPO

The United Auto Workers (UAW) union has endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Kamala Harris, citing her "historic candidacy" and commitment to delivering gains for the working class. This endorsement adds to labor support for Harris' campaign, with most big unions already backing her. The UAW's support is crucial in swing states like Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and Michigan, where blue-collar workers are key voters. Harris has also secured endorsements from the AFL-CIO, United Steelworkers, and American Federation of Teachers, among others.

Thames Water has had its credit rating downgraded by S&P to "junk" status, putting it in breach of licence conditions. The utility's debt burden is over £16.5bn and it needs to refinance more than £1bn of loans by next year. Despite having enough cash until May if it raises £750mn in equity, existing shareholders are refusing to invest. This has raised the risk of a fine from regulator Ofwat and could lead to renationalisation. The government is trying to avoid this outcome by proposing a special measures scheme for Thames Water.

London has lost its grip on the global mining sector, with its market capitalization shrinking to $272bn from $322bn in 2018. The city is now outranked by New York, Toronto, and Sydney as a global venue for mining company listings. The shift away from London has been driven by higher valuations and deeper liquidity in the US, which has become an attractive destination for larger Canadian-listed groups to move to. **London Stock Exchange (LSE)**-listed miners have raised just $8bn since 2020, less than a quarter of the amounts raised in Sydney and Toronto.

Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro has requested a government-controlled court to review the election results, which declared him the winner with 51.2% of the vote. The opposition, led by María Corina Machado, claims their candidate, Edmundo González, won with 7.1mn votes. The US and EU have called for transparency in releasing detailed election data. Authorities have cracked down on protests, resulting in 11 deaths and 749 arrests. Maduro's ruling United Socialist Party of Venezuela is preparing to present ballot papers to the court, amid allegations of a cyber attack and "psychological war" in the media.

Infosys, India's second-largest IT outsourcer, has been hit with a $3.9bn tax demand by Indian authorities. The tax demand relates to "expenses incurred by overseas branch offices" from July 2017 to March 2022. Infosys claims that GST is not applicable on these expenses and that it is fully compliant with regulations. This comes as the Indian IT industry shows signs of recovery following a worldwide tech spending slowdown. The tax demand has sparked concerns about India's opaque and onerous tax regulation.

Nvidia and chip stocks soared on Wednesday as Microsoft's increased spending on AI boosted investor confidence. Microsoft's Azure cloud computing platform grew 29% YoY, narrowly missing forecasts. The company's capital expenditures rose 80% to $19bn, with nearly all of it being cloud and AI-related spending. This news led to a surge in Nvidia's stock price by 13%, adding $329bn to its market value. Other chip stocks like Arm and AMD also saw gains. The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite index closed 2.6% higher. **[Artificial Intelligence](#)**, **[Microsoft](#)**, **[Nvidia](#)**, **[chip stocks](#)**

Delta Air Lines is facing a $500mn cost due to an IT outage caused by a botched CrowdStrike update in July. The airline's chief executive Ed Bastian has said they had "no choice" but to seek damages from the disruptions. Microsoft estimated that around 8.5mn Windows devices were affected, causing widespread disruption worldwide. Delta took longer than other airlines to recover, prompting an investigation by the US Department of Transportation. CrowdStrike has been criticized for not offering sufficient compensation to Delta and may face liability capped at the price customers paid for its software.

French swimmer Léon Marchand won two Olympic gold medals on Wednesday night, cementing his place as the breakout star of the Paris Olympics. He took first place in the 200m butterfly and then triumphed in the 200m breaststroke, setting a new Olympic record in both events. The results fueled the "Marchand mania" that has gripped France since he won his first gold on Sunday by obliterating his opponents in the 400m individual medley.

**Key Takeaways**

* Léon Marchand won two Olympic gold medals in the 200m butterfly and breaststroke
* He set a new Olympic record in both events
* The results have fueled the "Marchand mania" in France since he won his first gold on Sunday

Google is upgrading its search engine to tackle deepfake pornography by making it easier for victims to have videos and images taken down from the internet. The company will omit explicit results on related search terms that include a person's name and downgrade the ranking of sites that have received a high volume of removal notices. This move comes as the tech industry grapples with the social impacts of generative artificial intelligence, which has made fake images more realistic and easier to create. Google aims to reduce deepfake content by 70% since the start of the year through its policy changes.

US and EU diplomats are holding urgent talks in a bid to prevent a wider conflict in the Middle East after Israel targeted Hizbollah and Hamas leaders in Beirut and Tehran. The diplomatic pressure comes as Iran and Hizbollah vowed to avenge the attacks. Israeli diplomats told western interlocutors that their military did not plan further operations, but officials said the talks were focused on convincing Tehran to not respond or carry out symbolic action. The Biden administration held urgent consultations with Israel and other allies to try to pull all parties back from the brink of conflict.

Donald Trump questioned Kamala Harris's racial identity at a conference of Black journalists, claiming she was "Indian all the way" but later "became a Black person". His remarks were met with consternation and heckling from participants. Trump also claimed to have been the best president for Black voters since Abraham Lincoln. Harris has long embraced her Black heritage and is favored by many Black voters who are elated at the possibility of seeing her become the first Black woman president. A recent survey showed Harris performs significantly better than Biden against Trump among Black voters.

The alleged mastermind of the 9/11 attacks, Khaled Sheikh Mohammed, has reached a plea deal with the US government. As part of the agreement, he will avoid the death penalty and instead face a minimum sentence of **2,976 years** in a military tribunal. The Pentagon also announced agreements with two other defendants, Walid Muhammad Salih Mubarak Bin Attash and Mustafa Ahmed Adam al Hawsawi. The trio is expected to plead guilty and avoid a full trial. The plea deal comes after years of legal wrangling over Mohammed's treatment by the CIA and interrogation under torture in Guantánamo Bay.

---

### WORLD

- [Federal Reserve says first cut to US interest rates could come in September ](https://ft.com/content/d7556373-d423-4160-b864-3d7297fe6ae6)🔥
- [Kamala Harris gains endorsement of car workers as union support builds ](https://ft.com/content/92d5a31e-145b-433f-9b81-6f5f5634c995)
- [Venezuela’s Nicolás Maduro asks government-controlled court to review vote tally](https://ft.com/content/8a33bcfd-eda5-4ece-8101-aeee3ce70541)
- [French swimmer Léon Marchand cruises to two Olympic gold medals](https://ft.com/content/75ee6da5-87bf-4b9d-967e-86a3438b5a0f)
- [EU and US race to prevent Mideast war after Israeli assassinations ](https://ft.com/content/5c01ccb9-968f-44a3-8b79-c6b5acc1c679)😶
- [Donald Trump questions Kamala Harris’s racial identity at Black journalist conference](https://ft.com/content/9fe65162-395a-4c45-b5d4-6d1853acdb8e)😶

### US

- [Alleged 9/11 mastermind Khaled Sheikh Mohammed reaches US plea deal](https://ft.com/content/08ef7477-0ada-46e8-baaf-3ef037f5cb28)😶

### TECHNOLOGY

- [Google upgrades search in drive to tackle deepfake porn](https://ft.com/content/a2b4896b-c48c-4b00-ab1a-e8cd7f98b299)

### MARKETS

- [London loses its historic grip on global mining sector listings](https://ft.com/content/1fb624db-8804-4ebf-a4e9-37569a435859)
- [Bank of Japan raises interest rates to 0.25%](https://ft.com/content/599790b6-abf1-4ca5-a1d9-40ccb352c9e2)

### COMPANIES

- [Bill Ackman abruptly withdraws IPO of Pershing Square US fund ](https://ft.com/content/649196a3-ba26-4838-b0ee-c298e64fde0e)🔥
- [Thames Water breaches licence conditions with fresh rating downgrade](https://ft.com/content/16640b07-688d-4dff-a870-cb476be470f4)
- [Meta’s revenue growth reassures investors as Zuckerberg plots AI spree](https://ft.com/content/edbe2580-0b64-4339-9be2-4b4fee46211b)
- [Indian IT outsourcer Infosys hit with $4bn tax demand](https://ft.com/content/515a716c-96dc-4a3a-a28f-1a8bf7829c53)
- [Nvidia and chip shares soar as Microsoft increases AI spending](https://ft.com/content/bad6ca0b-82fb-4ddb-b6b8-bd09dacd47ae)
- [Delta says CrowdStrike IT outage will cost airline $500mn](https://ft.com/content/dba1cb7a-46b1-4f94-b596-432e7d899f8d)

