---
title: 2024-08-26
date: 2024-08-26
tags: 
- newsletter
author: HeadlineCapsule
aliases: 
- /HeadlineCapsule/daily/2024-08-26
---


# Global News Roundup: Conflict War Crimes and Tech Debate 


# This Week in Global News

From escalating tensions on the battlefield to the ongoing debate over online freedom and responsibility, this week's news cycle has been marked by significant events across the globe. We delve into three stories that offer a glimpse into these complex issues, highlighting both the human cost of conflict and the challenges of navigating an increasingly interconnected world. 

## Reuters Team Member Killed in Russian Missile Attack on Ukraine Hotel

Tragedy struck in Kramatorsk, eastern Ukraine, this past weekend when a missile attack targeting the Hotel Sapphire resulted in the death of a member of a Reuters news team and injured two others. The team was staying at the hotel while covering the ongoing conflict.  The attack has been condemned by Ukraine as a deliberate strike on journalists, further highlighting the dangers faced by those reporting from active warzones.

“Targeted strikes on media have become Russia’s systemic war tactic,” said Ukrainian foreign ministry spokesperson Heorhii Tykhyi, calling for these “barbaric war crimes” to be prosecuted. This incident marks a grim reminder of the vulnerability of journalists and humanitarian workers operating in conflict zones.

## Mpox Surveillance Must Be Improved to Tackle Africa Surge, Expert Warns

A surge in mpox cases across Africa has prompted urgent calls for improved surveillance and a more robust response from global health stakeholders. 

Professor Dimie Ogoina, chair of the WHO's emergency committee on mpox, warns that case numbers are likely underestimated due to inadequate testing and data collection. He stresses the need to "make our surveillance system more proactive" to effectively tackle this evolving outbreak. The emergence of a new, more transmissible clade has further heightened concerns, with the potential for the virus to spread rapidly within communities.

“We are uncertain about so many things and that’s what makes it so dangerous,” Ogoina said, highlighting the urgency for targeted research and intervention strategies.

## Russian Lawmakers Hit Back at Arrest of Telegram Chief Pavel Durov in France


The arrest of Pavel Durov, founder and CEO of messaging app Telegram, in Paris has sparked a debate over online freedom and responsibility. 
Durov faces charges related to insufficient moderation of illegal activities on the platform, including terrorism and drug trafficking. Russian lawmakers have condemned the arrest, suggesting political motives and calling for Durov's release.

Durov's arrest underscores the complex challenges faced by platforms like Telegram in balancing free speech with the need to curb harmful content. The case is likely to fuel ongoing discussions about the extent to which tech companies should be held accountable for content shared on their platforms.




---

Kamala Harris's election fundraising has surged past $500mn since replacing Joe Biden as the Democratic presidential candidate. Her campaign raised **$540mn**, including **$82mn** during the Democratic National Convention, with a record-breaking number of grassroots donations from first-time contributors, particularly young voters and women. This influx of funds closes a fundraising gap opened by Donald Trump and gives Harris a cash advantage over her Republican opponent. The surge in fundraising is expected to give Harris a temporary bounce in public polls ahead of November's election.

**Grant Thornton's UK business is up for sale with a valuation of £1.5bn**

Private equity firms are considering offers for Grant Thornton's UK business, a mid-tier accountant valued between £1bn and £1.5bn. **Several buyout firms including Carlyle, Blackstone, Permira, CVC Capital Partners, and Bridgepoint** are weighing potential offers ahead of the September deadline. A merger with the US operations is also being explored. The sale would be a significant milestone in the UK accounting sector, which has seen less private equity involvement compared to the US. **Grant Thornton's audit practice will likely be ringfenced as part of any deal due to UK regulations**.

**The UK tiles industry is experiencing a sharp downturn due to consumers prioritizing travel over home improvements during the cost of living crisis. Sales have dropped 13% in 2023 compared to the previous year, with retailers slashing forecasts and some going out of business.** 

**Retailers such as Topps Tiles and CTD Tiles have seen significant declines in sales, while others like Tile Giant have closed down. The industry's troubles are exacerbated by a stagnant housing market, which is a key catalyst for home improvement sales.**

**Growth in spending on home improvements has been declining over the past few years, falling 7.5% in July compared to the same period last year. In contrast, customers continue to splurge on discretionary areas such as travel.**

Walmart Mexico, led by new CEO Ignacio Caride, is undergoing a digital overhaul to compete with online giants Amazon and Mercado Libre. The company aims to double its sales to 1.8tn pesos by 2033 through ecommerce growth, modernizing its IT systems, and integrating physical stores with online shopping. Despite facing increasing competition from local retailers, Walmart Mexico sees an opportunity to grow by winning market share from Mexico's small-store, informal retail sector. The company is also exploring cross-selling other services such as healthcare and financial services. **The goal is to create a seamless experience between physical stores and online shopping**.

---

### WORLD

- [Russian lawmakers hit back at arrest of Telegram chief Pavel Durov in France ](https://ft.com/content/c5d40e3c-9f9c-43dc-a467-1c713b40c168)🔥🔥🔥
- [Reuters team member killed in Russian missile attack on Ukraine hotel](https://ft.com/content/e0856a97-6e56-47a1-bbe9-d0c97133a076)🔥
- [Mpox surveillance must be improved to tackle Africa surge, expert warns](https://ft.com/content/c62e1799-694b-4d8b-80d4-6cf597ecc19a)

### US

- [Kamala Harris’s election fundraising surges past $500mn since replacing Joe Biden](https://ft.com/content/d42427d4-5f09-4567-afd6-dcfbdc8a8c15)🔥🔥🔥

### COMPANIES

- [Private equity circles Grant Thornton’s UK business](https://ft.com/content/ee0f1bd9-1f23-45f4-ab0b-6ad27bc6a7b0)
- [UK tiles floored by consumers opting for travel over home improvements  ](https://ft.com/content/d2330fdd-7f1d-44ca-ad78-b787b9a6ca98)
- [Walmart Mexico accelerates digital overhaul of retail giant under new boss ](https://ft.com/content/05744a5e-5db5-4548-86ca-92a486ef77d9)

