---
title: 2024-08-13
date: 2024-08-13
tags: 
- newsletter
author: HeadlineCapsule
aliases: 
- /HeadlineCapsule/daily/2024-08-13
---


# Disinformation on the Rise: Navigating a Complex Web of Misleading News
The spread of misinformation is becoming an increasingly pressing concern worldwide, with far-reaching consequences for individuals, communities, and societies as a whole.

## China’s Hesai Removed from US Defense Department Blacklist
Hesai, a Chinese laser sensor manufacturer, has been removed from the Pentagon's blacklist of companies with alleged ties to the Chinese military. This decision comes after US government lawyers expressed concerns that the rationale for Hesai's inclusion would not hold up to legal scrutiny.

## TikTok Push Alerts Include Fake News and Weeks-Old Tsunami Warning
TikTok has come under fire for sending inaccurate and misleading news-style alerts to users' phones, including a false claim about Taylor Swift and a weeks-old disaster warning. Experts warn that the platform's algorithmic generation of push notifications may make users more susceptible to misinformation.

## Blackstone Sells 3,000 Homes Worth £405mn to UK’s Biggest Pension Fund
Blackstone has sold a portfolio of 3,000 affordable homes to the Universities Superannuation Scheme (USS), the UK's largest private pension fund. This deal marks the first sale by Blackstone from its UK residential portfolio and is seen as a significant investment in the country's housing sector.

These three stories highlight the complex web of misinformation that we navigate on a daily basis, from the spread of false news to the manipulation of data for financial gain. As we move forward in this digital age, it is essential that we prioritize media literacy, critical thinking, and transparency to combat the growing threat of disinformation.

---

**Elon Musk clashes with EU over X 'disinformation' ahead of Donald Trump interview**

The European Union (EU) has clashed with Elon Musk's social media platform X over content related to the US election, just hours before a planned interview with Donald Trump. The dispute erupted as Trump returned to X after being banned for life in 2021. EU Commissioner Thierry Breton warned X about the dissemination of "disinformation" and "incitement to violence", but Musk responded with a meme. The Trump campaign blasted the EU as an "enemy of free speech".

Donald Trump held a two-hour interview with Elon Musk on X, during which he accused Democrats of engineering a "coup" against President Joe Biden and claimed internal enemies were more dangerous than foreign adversaries like Russia and China. **Trump also praised the leaders of Russia, China, and North Korea** as "tough, smart, and vicious". The discussion highlighted Trump's appeal to Musk, a self-declared "free-speech absolutist", but was criticized by the Harris campaign for showcasing Trump's extremism.

**Dozens of UK start-ups that received taxpayer-funded loans under the Future Fund programme face being wound up due to bad investments.**

The Future Fund, a £1.14bn portfolio of investments, lent to 1,190 mainly early-stage companies between May 2020 and July 2021. However, court records show that the British Business Bank (BBB) has filed winding-up petitions for 27 companies in the Future Fund portfolio since January. **One company, Gather, owes £3.6mn on its convertible loan and has been offered just £400,000 for its business assets.**

The BBB reported a £122mn post-tax loss in its latest financial year, with falling start-up and tech valuations dragging on its performance. The Future Fund portfolio has seen 258 businesses go insolvent at a cost of £226mn to the taxpayer. **The BBB will take steps to wind up any company it believes is insolvent or in breach of the loan agreement.**

Indian billionaire Sunil Bharti Mittal's conglomerate has agreed to buy a 24.5% stake in BT Group from Altice. This investment is worth around £3.2bn and marks a vote of confidence in the telecoms group and the UK. **Mittal, who amassed his fortune in India's telecoms market, said he hopes to add value to BT's thinking** and support CEO Allison Kirkby's strategy. The investment raises Mittal's profile and is seen as a long-term play, not a short-term stock market operation.

**Jobhunters flood recruiters with AI-generated CVs**

About half of all job seekers are using artificial intelligence tools to apply for roles, inundating employers and recruiters with low-quality applications. Candidates are turning to generative AI to write their CVs, cover letters, and complete assessments. This has led to a "barrage" of AI-powered applications, making it harder for recruiters to sift through. Employers are now dealing with large volumes of AI-generated CVs, with many detecting the use of AI by spotting "telltale signs" such as American grammar and bland language. **Recruiters warn that this trend is making it harder to find qualified candidates**.

US junk loan funds suffered their biggest outflows in 4 years, with investors pulling $2.5bn out of funds that invest in junk loans during the week to August 7. The withdrawals were concentrated in exchange-traded funds (ETFs), which saw their highest level of outflows on record. **The outflows are due to fears of a US recession and expectations of interest rate cuts**, which would hurt lower-quality borrowers. Despite this, some analysts believe that lower rates could help heavily indebted companies, providing a silver lining for the asset class.

**Revolut Backer Balderton Capital Raises $1.3bn for European Tech Start-ups**

Balderton Capital, a London-based venture capital firm that backed Revolut, has raised $1.3bn in Europe's largest venture funding focused on start-ups in the region. This fundraise follows new capital for several top VC firms this year and reflects "growing interest in European tech." Balderton plans to invest in more mature start-ups, with a focus on AI applications built on top of existing infrastructure.

**Key Points:**

* $1.3bn raised in Europe's largest venture funding
* Growing interest in European tech
* Focus on AI applications built on top of existing infrastructure
* Increased capital available for European start-ups

Thousands of Athens residents have been evacuated from their homes as strong winds blew wildfires towards the northern outskirts of the Greek capital. A 25m high wall of flames, covering a 30km radius, is encroaching on the city. The body of one woman was retrieved in Athens' northern Chalandri district.

**Hundreds of firefighters and dozens of aircraft have been fighting the blazes since fires broke out on Sunday, with Greece appealing for international help.**

The European Commission has deployed two jets from Italy, a helicopter from France, and firefighting teams from the Czech Republic and Romania. France has also offered to send 180 rescue workers and firefighters.

This is not the first time wildfires have ravaged Greece, with several hundred recorded last year alone due to persistent drought conditions. The National Observatory of Athens is in "immediate danger" as wildfires enter their grounds.

UK Treasury officials have raised concerns over the timing of a new anti-fraud regime set to launch in October, which aims to reimburse fraud victims for claims worth up to £415,000. **Treasury Minister Rachel Reeves** is pushing regulators to prove they are taking seriously their duty to protect the City's competitiveness and promote growth. The Payment Systems Regulator's decision has caused alarm in the banking and fintech sector, with concerns that it will encourage fraudsters to pose as victims to illegitimately recoup compensation.

The EU's new medical trial rules are set to slow down the approval of vital treatments for rare diseases. Pharmaceutical companies, researchers, and patient groups warn that stricter curbs on medical trials will make it harder to get approval for drugs for rare diseases. The rules prioritize expensive mass trials over single-arm trials, which are often necessary for ethical and practical reasons in rare diseases. This could prevent access to transformative therapies in many EU member states. **76 cell and gene therapies have been launched globally by the end of 2023**, with most approved and available advanced therapies using single-arm studies.

**Carlyle Explores €3bn Sale of Dutch Salt and Chemicals Producer Nobian**

Carlyle Group is exploring a €3bn sale of Dutch salt and chemicals producer Nobian. Nobian, owned by Carlyle and GIC, produces high-purity salt, chlorine, and other specialty chemicals for clean energy solutions like solar panels and electric vehicle batteries. The company has set targets to reduce its direct carbon emissions by 50% by 2030 and 100% by 2040. Nobian is among the largest industrial emitters in the Netherlands and signed an agreement with the Dutch government to work together to reduce its carbon emissions faster.

Janus Henderson has acquired a 55% stake in $6bn alternative investments firm Victory Park Capital Advisors, expanding its private credit footprint. The deal comes as traditional asset managers seek to meet growing investor demand for private credit investment opportunities. Janus Henderson's stock is up almost 15% year-to-date, and the company aims to diversify its offerings with a broader range of private credit investment options. **Private credit** has emerged as a significant market opportunity, with clients seeking to diversify their exposure beyond direct lending.

India's government has withdrawn a draft broadcasting services bill after facing backlash from online content creators and civil liberties groups. The bill, which was circulated last month, sparked concerns about its potential chilling effect on free speech and compliance burden on online creators. **Over 700 online content creators** wrote an open letter complaining about the "opacity in the consultation process". The government's withdrawal of the bill is seen as a reflection of its reduced parliamentary mandate after losing its majority in recent elections.

**Pakistan arrests former spy chief Faiz Hameed**
Pakistan's army has arrested its former director of Inter-Services Intelligence, Faiz Hameed, and initiated court martial proceedings against him. This is the first time a spymaster has faced legal action in Pakistan's 77-year history. Hameed is charged with violating retirement terms and involvement in a land development issue. His ties to ousted Prime Minister Imran Khan and former PM Nawaz Sharif are also under scrutiny. The move comes amid anti-army sentiment in the public, and some analysts see it as an attempt to send a tough message to Khan's allies.

The US has warned that Iran or its proxies may launch an attack on Israel this week, possibly as retaliation for the assassinations of Hamas and Hizbollah leaders. The White House is preparing for a "significant set of attacks" and has sent additional military assets to the region. Israeli forces are on high alert, but no changes have been made to civilian guidance yet. International leaders, including US President Joe Biden, have warned of consequences if Iran carries out an attack and urged Israel and Hamas to resume ceasefire talks. **Tensions remain high as nations try to defuse the situation**.

---

### WORLD

- [Donald Trump lashes out at ‘inside’ enemies in 2-hour Elon Musk interview](https://ft.com/content/26cf21b6-4c86-428c-a67d-be497a2f12e2)🔥🔥
- [Athens residents evacuated as wildfires spread near capital](https://ft.com/content/e1c2cd10-1a4f-4225-af2d-41f3b7add0ca)
- [EU warned new medical trial rules will slow approval of vital treatments ](https://ft.com/content/c5dbb944-4e7b-4851-ba72-2a07252ec54a)
- [India withdraws controversial broadcast bill after backlash](https://ft.com/content/ba8fdc6b-bca8-4dce-8a77-db0bd2763b72)
- [Pakistan arrests former spy chief ](https://ft.com/content/6712b3e4-6959-4a6b-8311-922cf0ed9cca)😶

### US

- [Elon Musk clashes with EU over X ‘disinformation’ ahead of Donald Trump interview](https://ft.com/content/fe5be0e2-3006-4cd9-8876-44b0ebf718ee)🔥🔥🔥
- [China’s Hesai to be removed from US defence department blacklist ](https://ft.com/content/97dff7c2-33e9-4729-a059-968e308cac49)
- [US warns Iran attack on Israel could come this week](https://ft.com/content/404a3537-ef90-49e7-9fce-2fc621980107)😶

### TECHNOLOGY

- [Dozens of UK start-ups helped by taxpayer-funded loans in pandemic face closure](https://ft.com/content/6a84f874-fef8-45b4-901c-ffed8e149392)🔥
- [Jobhunters flood recruiters with AI-generated CVs](https://ft.com/content/30a032dd-bdaa-4aee-bc51-754867abbde0)
- [TikTok push alerts include fake news and weeks-old tsunami warning](https://ft.com/content/8f0a08c9-1ba6-4df5-a6bd-ac7d288e5ca2)
- [Revolut backer Balderton Capital raises $1.3bn for European tech start-ups](https://ft.com/content/f21180c8-f5c9-4261-8f69-59dd954f011e)

### MARKETS

- [US junk loan funds suffer biggest outflows in 4 years](https://ft.com/content/97811b4d-e245-4322-8a0e-5ac215d822ab)

### COMPANIES

- [Indian billionaire to buy 24.5% BT stake from Altice](https://ft.com/content/1b2d4195-8af4-439b-86c5-cc0f2f1f78f5)
- [Blackstone sells 3,000 homes worth £405mn to UK’s biggest pension fund ](https://ft.com/content/b291f3a7-7c1b-43c8-8283-fef0014876a3)
- [UK Treasury questions timetable on contentious fraud compensation plan ](https://ft.com/content/dfab371b-17b6-41cf-bc9a-4cbdaed0bfe9)
- [Carlyle explores €3bn sale of Dutch salt and chemicals producer Nobian ](https://ft.com/content/6146de18-9e41-4c4d-a0ca-d5fcfb93f458)
- [Janus Henderson expands private credit footprint with stake in $6bn boutique](https://ft.com/content/d921e0e9-ec83-4de7-bda7-5239b89764c6)

