---
title: 2024-08-20
date: 2024-08-20
tags: 
- newsletter
author: HeadlineCapsule
aliases: 
- /HeadlineCapsule/daily/2024-08-20
---


# Global Markets Grapple with Innovation and Uncertainty 


## Global Markets Facing a Crossroads

This week's global market roundup reveals intriguing trends and potential turning points across multiple sectors. From Beijing's innovative approach to stimulating its economy, to Kamala Harris's bold economic proposals vying for voter support, and finally to concerns surrounding foreign investment in Chinese stocks, we delve into the complex realities shaping today's financial landscape.

## China Unleashes Intellectual Property as Collateral for Tech Lending

Facing a sluggish economy and a property sector slowdown, Beijing is adopting a novel approach to revive lending: using intellectual property (IP) as collateral.  New loans secured against patents, trademarks, and even geographical indications soared 57% in the first half of 2024. This strategy aims to support innovative small companies struggling to secure traditional loans. "Small and micro enterprises need to flourish on a large scale," stated Shen Changyu, bureau chief of the China National Intellectual Property Administration.  However, some experts caution about the difficulty of valuing Chinese IP, most of which is new and associated with limited cash flow.

## Harris Unveils Economic Plan: A Balancing Act Between Populism and Pragmatism

Kamala Harris's economic proposals offer a blend of populist measures and pragmatic solutions aimed at winning over American voters. Key initiatives include increasing the corporate tax rate to 28%, implementing a federal ban on price-gouging in the food sector, and expanding housing supply with significant tax breaks for families and first-time homebuyers. While these policies address pressing concerns like inflation and affordability, some economists criticize them for potentially leading to excessive government regulation and market distortions. "This plan was obviously not designed to appeal to economists," said David Wessel, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.

## Beijing Restricts Trading Data as Foreign Investors Flee Chinese Stocks 

Amidst growing concerns about China's slowing economy and property sector crisis, foreign investors are pulling out of mainland stocks.  Since June, over $12 billion has been withdrawn from Chinese equities. Adding to the anxiety, Chinese authorities have restricted access to key investment data, including daily updates on net foreign investment flows. This move, coupled with a slowdown in trading volumes and reports of government intervention to stabilize markets, raises questions about transparency and market confidence. "Investors may wonder why it is no longer offered," said Gary Ng, senior economist at Natixis,  highlighting the potential impact on attracting foreign investment.

---

Kamala Harris plans to raise the US corporate tax rate to **28%** if she wins the presidency, a move that could draw criticism from business. Her proposal is designed to increase government revenues from corporate America and would make the US's corporate tax rate higher than the UK's. This contrasts with Donald Trump's plan to slash the corporate tax rate to **15%**. Harris's plan aims to put money back in the pockets of working people and ensure billionaires and big corporations pay their fair share, but could face opposition from Republicans on Capitol Hill.

Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy stated that the country's incursion into Russia aims to establish a **"buffer zone"** to prevent cross-border attacks into Sumy in Ukraine by Moscow's army. Ukrainian forces have been pressing ahead with their operation inside Kursk, which began nearly two weeks ago, destroying bridges and hindering Russian military logistics. Zelenskyy also mentioned that creating a buffer zone is part of Ukraine's defensive operations overall, aiming to destroy as much Russian war potential as possible and conduct maximum counteroffensive actions.

US President Joe Biden defended his legacy and supported Kamala Harris as his successor in a valedictory speech at the Democratic convention. Biden, 81, argued that he had reunited the country after the divisiveness of the Trump years and touted his legislative victories. He called on the convention to support Harris, saying choosing her as his vice-president was "the best decision I made in my whole career". **Biden's speech presented a delicate balancing act for the president, who reluctantly stepped aside last month under pressure from party leaders**.

**US CEOs Reassess Presidential Election After Harris's Rise**

The US presidential election has become a concern for corporate leaders, who are now reassessing their views on the candidates. **Kamala Harris's rapid rise in the polls has prompted some CEOs to take a second look**, with many feeling that her administration might be more business-friendly than previously thought. **Business leaders value predictability and stability**, which Trump's chaotic governing style does not provide. Some executives are supporting Harris, while others remain neutral or back Trump, citing potential backlash from customers and investors. The election is a concern for companies benefiting from Biden's policies and those importing goods from overseas.

Investors have increased their equity holdings as global stocks rebounded last week, with Deutsche Bank flow data showing a sharp increase in discretionary investors' positioning. **Cash poured into index options, megacap technology stocks, and cyclicals**, while trend-following portfolios also increased their equity exposure. The swift recovery comes after a bout of market volatility in early August, and global equity markets have notched their best weekly run since November as volatility subsided and stronger US economic data allayed recession fears.

US intelligence officials have confirmed that Iran was behind a hacking attempt on Donald Trump's presidential campaign, as well as attempts to compromise the Biden-Harris campaign. **Iran perceives the November vote to be "particularly consequential"** and has sought to interfere in US politics through hacking and influence operations. The agencies stated that Iran uses social engineering to trick victims into sharing sensitive information and aims to stoke discord and undermine confidence in democratic institutions. This comes as President Biden and his administration are trying to stop another attack on Israel.

Ofcom, the UK media regulator, is increasing its online safety workforce by 20% to tackle misinformation. This comes after violent unrest sparked by false information on social media platforms. The Online Safety Act, passed last year, will come into effect in late 2025 or 2026 and makes it illegal to send false messages with intent to cause harm. However, some argue the act does not go far enough to hold tech companies accountable for allowing misinformation to spread. **Lawmakers are considering new laws to tackle algorithms that help spread misinformation**.

**UK hospitality industry sees first quarterly increase in two years**

The UK hospitality industry has seen a 0.5% increase in registered venues to 99,207 in June, marking the first rise since mid-2022. **Bars offering activities like axe-throwing and mini-golf have driven this growth**, with themed bars increasing by 28.9% to 281. The number of late-night bars and nightclubs has declined by 5.7% and 9.9%, respectively, while cocktail bars and craft beer bars grew by 10.8% and 5.6%. Casual dining also registered a quarterly growth of 0.9%.

Carl Icahn, a prominent activist investor, agreed to settle US regulatory charges with the SEC for failing to disclose personal margin loans worth billions of dollars. The SEC alleged that Icahn pledged over half of his company's outstanding shares as collateral since 2018, but didn't disclose this until 2022. Icahn Enterprises will pay $1.5mn and Carl Icahn will pay $500,000 to settle the charges. This comes after a report by Hindenburg Research alleged that Icahn Enterprises was overvalued and had "Ponzi-like" economic structures. **The settlement makes no claim of fraud or Ponzi scheme involvement**.

**Ashtead defends planned $14mn pay deal for CEO Brendan Horgan, despite proxy advisers urging shareholders to vote against it.**
The equipment rental company is seeking shareholder support for a three-year pay policy that could double Horgan's total earnings this year.
ISS and Glass Lewis have deemed the proposals "excessive" and are advising shareholders to vote against them.
Ashtead claims the pay increase reflects Horgan's experience and strong track record over five years, and is necessary to attract and retain talent in a competitive market.

**Researchers have developed a new technology called adaptive deep brain stimulation (aDBS) that can reduce Parkinson's symptoms by reading brain activity.**

* Deep brain implants were inserted into the brains of four men with severe Parkinson's and an AI algorithm generated a personal therapy plan to deliver the right amount of stimulus to control symptoms.
* The results showed a 50% reduction in motor symptoms compared to conventional DBS implants.
* This technology has the potential to relieve symptoms such as tremors, spasms, stiffness, and slow movement more effectively than conventional DBS.

The US has made progress towards a Gaza ceasefire-for-hostages deal, with Benjamin Netanyahu accepting a "bridging proposal" that aims to resolve differences between Israel and Hamas. Antony Blinken, the US Secretary of State, held talks with Netanyahu in which he confirmed acceptance of the proposal. **Hamas must now agree to the plan**, which includes a three-stage deal to halt fighting and release hostages. The proposal takes account of Israeli demands but not those of Hamas. Regional tensions remain high due to Iran's threats against Israel.

Mike Lynch, a UK tech entrepreneur, is among those missing after his luxury yacht Bayesian sank off the coast of Sicily in bad weather. Lynch was acquitted of criminal charges by a jury in San Francisco earlier this month. The 56-meter yacht was carrying members of Lynch's legal team and their families, as well as Jonathan Bloomer, chair of insurance group Hiscox, who is also missing. Six guests are unaccounted for and one crew member has been confirmed dead. The search operation is ongoing near Palermo, with divers working to recover the vessel and locate those missing.

Bitwise Asset Management has acquired London-based ETC Group, expanding its footprint into Europe for the first time. This is the second takeover of a European cryptocurrency specialist by a US financial group in three months. The deal will allow Bitwise to serve European investors and offer clients global insight. **$4.5 billion** in assets under management are expected post-acquisition. ETC Group's employees will be retained, and its crypto products will be rebranded as Bitwise vehicles. This expansion comes amid the growing US investment market providing firepower for American companies to expand into Europe.

---

### WORLD

- [Kamala Harris backs plan to raise US corporate tax rate to 28%](https://ft.com/content/77841ed0-f2d2-4fea-a957-dd0b78a371c1)🔥🔥🔥
- [Ukraine wants to create ‘buffer zone’ with Kursk incursion, says Zelenskyy](https://ft.com/content/eaa4a6c0-e4f9-4690-9bde-55aca929b966)🔥
- [Joe Biden defends legacy as he passes Democratic torch to Kamala Harris](https://ft.com/content/d29a0dcf-e24c-4e79-a33a-2c43773e3f07)🔥
- [US intelligence says Iran was behind Trump campaign hack ](https://ft.com/content/ec3b979c-72d1-406a-901c-61b1b673fa23)
- [China gets creative to boost lending to tech start-ups](https://ft.com/content/1f358db3-293f-4a53-a58a-fd70b9cee065)
- [Benjamin Netanyahu backs ceasefire compromise proposal, says Antony Blinken](https://ft.com/content/30bcc096-fb68-4c59-8681-cff779243e1c)😶

### US

- [Harris’s economic plan: grocery prices, housing credits and tax rises](https://ft.com/content/ca77e41d-225d-4240-a0f7-303d3938f597)
- [Harris-Trump US election clash offers CEOs ‘little upside and a lot of risk’](https://ft.com/content/f8e6c595-aec8-4637-9c6a-8c1c0af85c2d)

### TECHNOLOGY

- [Hiring spree at UK regulator as pressure grows to curb misinformation ](https://ft.com/content/020cec30-9eec-4a04-8738-e1aed5544afc)
- [Implants reduce Parkinson’s symptoms by reading brain activity ](https://ft.com/content/c63fdec7-8b19-4a77-9b71-9d84705cfc86)

### MARKETS

- [Investors pile back into equities amid ‘full recovery’ in market confidence](https://ft.com/content/399dd476-ef79-496f-a94d-b189d4ff5dd3)
- [Beijing restricts trading data as foreign investors flee Chinese stocks](https://ft.com/content/6e7a4129-d365-4905-8d9b-cc3f5ada5187)

### COMPANIES

- [Axe-throwing and mini-golf bars drive rise in UK hospitality venues ](https://ft.com/content/fa1d39db-d4f0-410b-af20-97020784ca00)
- [Carl Icahn hit by SEC disclosure charges after short seller attack](https://ft.com/content/17e0e646-2b0c-4666-890f-8c9bd06aa908)
- [Ashtead defends potential $14mn pay deal for chief ](https://ft.com/content/882fd0ca-d688-4496-912f-6d5928cb0191)
- [Mike Lynch among missing after yacht sinks off Sicily](https://ft.com/content/62573c65-6504-4b6b-8031-266a6a8b3830)😶
- [US crypto manager seals deal to push into European market](https://ft.com/content/11bb0265-f952-4e10-925c-d51866fc16ee)😶

