---
title: 2024-09-05
date: 2024-09-05
tags: 
- newsletter
author: HeadlineCapsule
aliases: 
- /HeadlineCapsule/daily/2024-09-05
---


# China's AI Ambitions Face Hurdles Amid Global Uncertainty 


## Global Currents: Navigating Tech Turmoil

This week's newsletter dives into a complex web of geopolitical tensions, tech advancements, and economic uncertainty. From China's ambitious pursuit of AI dominance to the tremors shaking the US stock market, we explore the forces shaping our global landscape.

##  China’s Xi Jinping Courts African Leaders to Ward Off Geopolitical Rivals

As China seeks to solidify its position as a global powerhouse, President Xi Jinping has embarked on a charm offensive with African leaders. This week's summit in Beijing promises billions in financial support and infrastructure investments, all part of a broader strategy to counter growing US influence on the continent.  However, concerns remain about the sustainability of Chinese loans and the potential for debt traps, highlighting the complexities of this burgeoning partnership.

"On the road to modernisation . . . not a single country should fall behind,” Xi told the leaders in his opening speech.  He pledged $50bn in financial support over the next three years, demonstrating China's willingness to leverage its economic clout to secure strategic alliances.

## Nvidia Leads US Market Sell-Off as Weak Data Feeds Slowdown Fears

The stock market jitters continue, with tech giants like Nvidia leading a broad sell-off on Wall Street. Concerns about a looming recession deepened after weak manufacturing data fueled anxieties about the pace of economic recovery.  

Nvidia's woes were further exacerbated by news of an antitrust probe launched by the US Department of Justice, questioning its dominance in the AI chip market. "Risk aversion is taking over," said Dec Mullarkey, managing director at SLC Management, reflecting the cautious mood gripping investors.


## Huawei’s Bug-Ridden Software Hampers China's Efforts to Replace Nvidia in AI

While China strives to match US prowess in artificial intelligence, its efforts are facing a significant hurdle: unreliable software.  Huawei, the leading contender aiming to replace Nvidia, has encountered criticism for its Cann software platform, which developers find unstable and lacking the user-friendliness of Nvidia's Cuda platform.

"When random errors occur, it is very difficult to find out where it comes from due to poor documentation," confided a Huawei researcher who wished to remain anonymous.  This struggle highlights the complexity of developing robust AI infrastructure and underscores the ongoing challenges in China's quest for tech supremacy. 


---

Volvo Cars has abandoned its target to sell only electric cars by 2030 due to a global slowdown in growth for battery-powered vehicles. The company's CEO, Jim Rowan, cited changing market conditions and consumer concerns over charging infrastructure as reasons for the revised target. Volvo will now aim to turn **90-100%** of its sales to electric cars and plug-in hybrids by 2030. Despite this shift, demand for premium EVs has continued to grow, with a record 20% gross margin in the second quarter. The company will continue to invest in hybrid technology amid growing consumer demand.

Brazil's Supreme Court has faced backlash over its decision to ban Elon Musk's X social media platform, amid concerns that the top court has gone too far in fighting fake news and misinformation online. The court ordered a daily fine of about $8,000 for users who access X using virtual private networks (VPNs), sparking controversy among right-wing politicians and experts. Some see the decision as autocratic and an attack on free speech, while others view it as an important statement of national sovereignty.

**The ban was implemented after X refused to comply with a deadline to appoint a legal representative in Brazil**, one of its biggest markets. The move has divided opinion, with 56% of Brazilians feeling that Supreme Court justice Alexandre de Moraes is "exceeding the limits" of his authority.

**Joe Biden set to block Nippon Steel's takeover of US Steel**

President Joe Biden is expected to block Nippon Steel's $14.9bn acquisition of US Steel, citing national security concerns that cannot be mitigated. The deal was evaluated by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the US (Cfius), which informed Nippon Steel recently that it posed national security threats. **US Steel shares fell 22%** after the news, and Biden's move is seen as a bid to boost support among union workers in Pennsylvania. The Trump campaign also opposes the deal, with Trump saying he would block it "immediately" if elected.

Liz Cheney, a prominent Republican, has endorsed Kamala Harris for president. This move makes her one of the most notable Republicans to support the Democratic vice-president. **Cheney cited the "danger" of re-electing Donald Trump** as the reason for her endorsement, emphasizing the importance of recognizing this threat. As a conservative and foreign policy hawk, Cheney has been critical of Trump's actions and previously supported his impeachment. Her endorsement is significant given her past leadership roles in Congress and her opposition to Trump's policies.

**Brazilians Flock to Bluesky After Court Bans Elon Musk's X**

The Brazilian Supreme Court's suspension of Elon Musk's social media platform X has led to a surge in users joining Bluesky, with almost 2 million new registrations in four days. The platform, launched by Jack Dorsey, now tops the rankings on Google and Apple stores in Brazil. With over 144 million people using at least one social media platform in Brazil, the country frequently leads online usage lists. The suspension of X has divided opinion, with right-wing figures criticizing it as an attack on free speech.

Kamala Harris has proposed increasing the top capital gains tax rate to **28%**, a softer approach than Joe Biden's plan of 39.6%. This move is seen as an olive branch to Wall Street, and aims to encourage investment in America's innovators, vendors, and small businesses. The proposal is part of her economic platform, which also includes raising the corporate tax rate and introducing a minimum tax rate for billionaires. Harris has contrasted her stance with Trump's plan to give billionaires massive tax cuts and cut corporate taxes by over $1 trillion.

A record number of advertisers plan to cut back on advertising spending on X (formerly Twitter) next year due to concerns over being associated with extreme content. According to a Kantar survey, 26% of marketers planned to reduce spending on X in 2025, the biggest recorded pullback from any major global advertising platform. This trend is expected to further impact X's finances and value, already plummeting since Elon Musk's takeover in 2022. **Only 4% of marketers consider X "brand safe"**, compared to 39% for Google.

**Star manager Rob Arnott launches ETF to buy up index 'rejects'**

Rob Arnott, a smart beta pioneer, is launching an exchange traded fund (ETF) that invests in companies dropped from major indices such as the S&P 500 and Russell 1000. The **Deletions ETF**, with ticker NIXT, aims to capitalize on historical evidence that deleted companies can turn around performance and generate dividends. Arnott hopes to find value in depressed stock prices following index deletions, which often lead to sell-offs. The fund will charge 0.09% in its first year, rising to 0.39%. This is Arnott's first foray into ETFs, with the goal of outperforming traditional broad-based benchmarks.

**Canada's government is under threat after Justin Trudeau's parliamentary alliance partner, the New Democratic Party (NDP), tore up a deal to support his Liberal government.**
**The NDP leader, Jagmeet Singh, said he had ended the 2022 agreement, leaving the minority Liberal party vulnerable to a vote of no confidence that could end their nine years of power in Ottawa.**
**Trudeau sought to downplay the threat, saying an election will come within the next year, but the move has deepened doubts over his future as Liberal leader ahead of a federal election by October 2025.**

Oasis has announced two extra Wembley Stadium shows after blaming promoters and management for ticketing issues under dynamic pricing. The band claims they had no awareness that dynamic pricing would be used, which led to widespread outrage among fans who were forced to pay hundreds of pounds more for tickets. Over 10mn fans queued to buy tickets, but many were left frustrated after being kicked out of the system or told to pay higher prices. Applications for the new gigs will be opened first to unsuccessful fans from the initial sale with Ticketmaster. **Dynamic pricing** and **Ticketmaster** are key issues in this controversy.

**Top AI companies are facing a wave of copyright litigation as they aggressively scrape data from the web to train their models. A class-action lawsuit against Anthropic claims the company "stole hundreds of thousands of copyrighted books" without permission. The New York Times is also suing OpenAI and Microsoft for copyright infringement, claiming they are profiting from the exploitation of the newspaper's intellectual property. This litigation has pushed AI companies to trawl deeper recesses of the web or purchase private data sets, marking a new "data frontier".**

The influence of Amazon and Jeff Bezos's $10bn charitable group over the carbon credit market is raising alarm. The Bezos Earth Fund, which backs the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), is being accused of promoting alternatives to SBTi's standards that have no limit on the use of carbon credits. This has led to concerns about conflicts of interest and the potential for Amazon to influence climate standards.

**Amazon is expanding its voluntary pledging initiative**, signed by over 500 companies, which allows them to choose how far they must cut emissions versus buying offsets. The Bezos fund has also financed organizations that employ three SBTi board members, raising further concerns about influence.

The battle over the future of SBTi could be crucial for corporate efforts to achieve climate goals, with some companies frustrated at the initiative's restrictions on carbon credits.

Citadel Securities is leading a pushback against exchanges' efforts to make brokers pay for a new market surveillance system, the Consolidated Audit Trail (CAT). The CAT has cost almost $1bn so far and was devised after the 2010 flash crash. Exchanges have called for brokers to contribute two-thirds of the costs, but Citadel Securities warns that this will be "brazen" and "an effort to extract hundreds of millions of dollars." Brokers are objecting to paying for the system's missteps and high operating budget, with some questioning whether they should pay at all.

Insurance groups are urging state support for "uninsurable" cyber risks, which they consider as big a threat as terrorism and flooding. Zurich and Marsh McLennan propose creating public-private partnerships to share losses from cyber attacks on critical infrastructure. This would help the private sector absorb potentially huge losses, currently estimated at $3.5tn in the event of a major global payments system attack. A state backstop is expected to encourage more insurers to offer policies and reduce prices, spurring take-up among companies and improvements in security practices.

Active ETFs are poised to hit $1tn in assets, with a compound annual growth rate of 48% since 2018. This growth is attributed to regulatory changes and the increasing popularity of index-tracking ETFs. The number of active ETFs has quadrupled globally, with some fund groups applying to launch active ETF share classes. **Traditional stockpickers are slower to adopt ETFs**, but success stories like Capital Group's Dividend Value ETF and T Rowe Price's Capital Appreciation Equity ETF show promise. Active ETFs charge lower fees than mutual funds, making them more cost-efficient.

**Sony is shifting its focus from distribution to content creation, as part of a "creation shift" aimed at winning a greater share of the $3tn entertainment industry.**

The Japanese tech giant has invested $10bn over six years in building a vast portfolio of games, films, and music, accounting for 60% of its annual revenue. CEO Kenichiro Yoshida said Sony needs to be more directly involved in creating content at an earlier stage to get higher returns.

**Sony is leveraging its consumer electronics roots to produce live entertainment and wants to maintain good relationships with streamers like Netflix, Apple, and Amazon.**

The company's focus on creation includes generating higher returns from its anime portfolio, bolstered by the $1.2bn purchase of AT&T's anime streaming service Crunchyroll in 2021.

**Sony aims to train more animators, improve the creative process using digital tools, and co-produce shows with Crunchyroll.**

The company also wants to use its knowhow from PlayStation Network to improve engagement with Crunchyroll subscribers and expand business opportunities through joint promotions.

US job openings fell to 7.7mn in July, the lowest level since January 2021. This is a 13% drop from the past year and indicates slowing labor demand. Lay-offs also rose to 1.8mn, the highest level since March 2023. Economists consider job openings a proxy for labor demand. **The Federal Reserve may lower interest rates later this month** due to these figures. The report suggests that the pandemic job market is over, with measures largely normalizing from their 2021-2022 extremes.

**Goldman Sachs slashes copper forecast due to Chinese demand drop**
Goldman Sachs has reduced its 2025 copper price forecast by a third, predicting an average of $10,100 a tonne next year, down from its previous prediction of $15,000. The bank blames the Chinese property rout for depressing metal consumption and causing a surplus in global copper inventories. This drop in demand weighs on profitability for major miners like BHP and Rio Tinto, with shares in Freeport-McMoRan tumbling 6% following the news. **Copper prices have sunk almost 20% since May to around $8,950 per tonne**.

**Oil prices fell to their weakest levels this year following a report that Libya may shortly restore full production, adding to fears of an oversupply on the market.**
* **Brent crude dropped 5% to $73.67 and WTI slid by 4.5% to $70.25, their weakest levels since December.**
* **Investors fear that Libya's restored output will add to concerns over weak demand from China, the world's largest importer of oil.**
* **The Libyan government dispute has caused around 60% of the country's 1.2mn barrels a day of oil production to shut down, but analysts say global supply can make up the shortfall.**

**Abu Dhabi Invests Billions in Exxon's Texas Hydrogen Project**

The crown prince of Abu Dhabi has invested billions in ExxonMobil's hydrogen project in Baytown, Texas. **Adnoc, Abu Dhabi's state oil company**, will buy 35% of the plant, making it one of the largest and cost-competitive attempts to produce low-carbon hydrogen. The investment is contingent on supportive government policy and necessary regulatory permits. The project aims to produce 1 billion cubic feet per day of "blue" hydrogen by 2029.

**Important details include:**

* **$multibillion-dollar deal**: Adnoc's investment in ExxonMobil's Baytown plant
* **Low-carbon hydrogen**: Production capacity of 1 billion cubic feet per day
* **Government policy**: Contingent on supportive government policy and necessary regulatory permits

The US, UK, and EU are set to sign a legally binding international treaty on artificial intelligence (AI) standards. The Council of Europe's convention on AI emphasizes human rights and democratic values in regulating public and private-sector systems. Signatories will be accountable for any harmful outcomes of AI systems and must respect equality and privacy rights. **10 countries, including the US, UK, and EU members**, are expected to be among the first to approve it. The treaty aims to provide a baseline for the regulation of AI software, rather than relying on individual national regulations.

Mexico's President Andrés Manuel López Obrador is on his final month in office, but his legacy may be determined by the reforms he implements before stepping down. With a supermajority in the senate, López Obrador has begun ramming through significant constitutional changes, including replacing all judges and the supreme court with directly elected individuals. Critics warn that this risks undermining judicial independence and democracy in Mexico. The US Chamber of Commerce has also expressed concerns about the reforms' impact on bilateral trade and investment. **López Obrador's plans aim to cement military control and absorb independent regulators**, sparking fears of ungovernability and a decline in investor confidence.

The US Department of Justice is seizing dozens of websites allegedly used by Russia to spread disinformation ahead of the 2024 presidential election. The seizures were made as part of a scheme to "covertly spread Russian government propaganda" with the aim of influencing voters, curbing global support for Ukraine and boosting pro-Russian interests. **US Attorney-General Merrick Garland** accused Moscow of setting up this scheme, citing an internal planning document created by the Kremlin that states securing Russia's preferred outcome in the election as a goal.

---

### WORLD

- [Republican Liz Cheney endorses Kamala Harris for president](https://ft.com/content/31f85be7-9264-4056-a469-03daae6feaab)🔥
- [Kamala Harris proposes 28% top capital gains tax rate in softening of Joe Biden’s plan](https://ft.com/content/aa2d4f90-7213-4423-8844-c1cde42e5fce)🔥
- [China’s Xi Jinping courts African leaders to ward off geopolitical rivals](https://ft.com/content/3ea5eead-4335-46b2-b437-3c1b9d2dcd6a)
- [US, Britain and Brussels to sign agreement on AI standards](https://ft.com/content/4052e7fe-7b8a-4c42-baa2-b608ba858df5)
- [Mexico’s Andrés Manuel López Obrador wields ‘superpowers’ in final month](https://ft.com/content/33851774-5318-44ff-8f81-6b7a412e336b)

### US

- [Joe Biden set to block Nippon Steel’s takeover of US Steel](https://ft.com/content/b8427273-7ee7-48de-af1e-3a972e5a0fcf)🔥
- [Canada’s government under threat as Trudeau parliamentary partner exits](https://ft.com/content/33114c07-2b7f-4946-bf59-d64f5f943a01)
- [US job openings fall to lowest level since 2021](https://ft.com/content/34a62dca-a886-4589-9dd3-11e8a640feb0)
- [US seizes websites allegedly used by Russia to spread election disinformation](https://ft.com/content/b9437993-75c2-45f9-95a4-0dc24dd0750a)😶

### TECHNOLOGY

- [Brazil’s X ban stokes backlash against Supreme Court](https://ft.com/content/a2df525d-a092-43c9-bcb7-d8a2382aa988)🔥🔥
- [Brazilians flock to Bluesky after court bans Elon Musk’s X](https://ft.com/content/c15eef00-4b35-4dd6-83c1-88eea9a46dc4)🔥
- [Huawei’s bug-ridden software hampers China’s efforts to replace Nvidia in AI](https://ft.com/content/3dab07d3-3d97-4f3b-941b-cc8a21a901d6)🔥
- [AI hit by copyright claims as companies approach ‘data frontier’](https://ft.com/content/e6a4dcae-2bda-42de-8112-768844673cea)
- [Amazon and Bezos fund’s influence over carbon credit market raises alarm](https://ft.com/content/388b190d-49b0-4997-af18-1049e911f0b7)
- [Sony chief bets on original content as part of ‘creation shift’](https://ft.com/content/307f7a2e-a755-4f6e-badc-9bc119f185df)

### MARKETS

- [Nvidia leads US market sell-off as weak data feeds slowdown fears](https://ft.com/content/ec95b2e3-94fc-4713-b4a6-2997338c3678)🔥
- [Star manager Rob Arnott launches ETF to buy up index ‘rejects’](https://ft.com/content/ace4e019-7542-47f4-b903-6d5030ac30f7)
- [Citadel Securities leads fight over payments for market surveillance system](https://ft.com/content/f5184d6d-f2b0-424b-b9e4-22661fefa96e)
- [Active ETFs set to hit $1tn in assets](https://ft.com/content/2674786a-1673-4cb9-9a1f-05e710a5fa57)
- [Goldman Sachs slashes copper forecast as miners’ profit outlook dims](https://ft.com/content/68b7dc87-754f-4ecb-969a-9ee19b184ffb)
- [Crude hits year low on speculation Libyan output will resume](https://ft.com/content/d64869d2-37fb-49c1-883c-cae1bbd10716)

### COMPANIES

- [Volvo Cars ditches pledge to sell only electric cars by 2030](https://ft.com/content/7d4d392c-e676-4eb8-84a6-1665b44d0ec8)🔥🔥🔥
- [Marketers threaten to cut spending on Elon Musk’s X in record numbers](https://ft.com/content/cf023e18-a6c7-4d78-bcb5-f295b5bcb928)
- [Oasis blames promoters for ticket fiasco after announcing new dates](https://ft.com/content/e7bfda5d-df36-4bcd-bff1-dd7602960588)
- [Insurance groups urge state support for ‘uninsurable’ cyber risks](https://ft.com/content/c2769c6d-8bec-4167-af5c-53c6cf139851)
- [Abu Dhabi to invest billions in Exxon’s Texas hydrogen project](https://ft.com/content/6f586178-fe76-4ffa-b07c-a90ac241b6ba)

