---
title: 2024-08-31
date: 2024-08-31
tags: 
- newsletter
author: HeadlineCapsule
aliases: 
- /HeadlineCapsule/daily/2024-08-31
---


# Global Trends Shape Tech Finance and Geopolitics 


## Navigating Global Shifts: From AI Regulation to Economic Slowdowns

This week's news cycle is punctuated by global trends shaping the future of technology, finance, and geopolitics. We delve into the complex debates surrounding artificial intelligence safety, dissect Russia's economic outlook amidst ongoing sanctions, and analyze China's central bank's intervention in its booming bond market.  These interconnected stories offer a glimpse into the challenges and opportunities facing nations and industries worldwide.

## Russia’s ‘Overheating’ Economy to Slow Sharply Next Year

Russia's economy faces a challenging future, with growth expected to slow significantly next year after a period of surprisingly strong performance. The central bank projects growth of 0.5 to 1.5 per cent in 2025 and 1 to 2 per cent in 2026. This slowdown is attributed to acute labor shortages and the negative effects of western sanctions, which are crimping production despite robust domestic demand.  The central bank acknowledged that "restrictions on technological imports and the outflow of skilled labour" will limit long-term expansion.

## California’s Divisive AI Safety Bill Sets Up Tough Decision for Governor

California's governor Gavin Newsom faces a pivotal decision regarding a controversial bill proposing strict regulations on artificial intelligence development. SB 1047, known as the Safe and Secure Innovation for Frontier Artificial Intelligence Systems act, mandates safety testing for advanced AI models and requires developers to implement "kill switches" to address potential public safety threats. This has sparked intense lobbying from both sides, with tech giants like Google and Meta expressing concerns about stifled innovation, while proponents argue that the bill is crucial for mitigating risks associated with rapidly advancing technology.

## Chinese Central Bank’s $56bn Debt Purchase Sparks Talk of Bond Market Intervention


China's central bank has made a significant move in its bond market by purchasing Rmb400bn ($56bn) of long-dated sovereign bonds, fueling speculation about direct intervention to shore up yields. Analysts believe this action is aimed at preventing a sharp fall in long-term yields that could trigger instability in the financial system.  The central bank's creation of a dedicated section on its website for "notices on the purchase and sale of sovereign bonds" further underscores its intention to actively manage bond yields and prevent a Silicon Valley Bank-style crisis.





---

Kamala Harris participated in her first major TV interview as a presidential candidate, distancing herself from left-wing positions on immigration, energy, and foreign policy. She vowed to take new steps to lower housing, drug, and food costs on her first day in office if she beats Donald Trump. Harris also defended the Biden administration's handling of the economy, despite persistent concerns among voters over inflation. **She refused to ban fracking**, citing a clean energy economy can be grown without it, and promised to include a Republican in her cabinet if she wins the presidency.

JD Vance, Donald Trump's running mate, has urged tech billionaire Peter Thiel to support the Republican White House bid. **Thiel has been hesitant to donate** despite being a conservative and having previously supported Vance's US Senate bid in 2022. Vance argues that Thiel should "get off the sidelines" and support the ticket, citing the importance of winning against Kamala Harris. He also called for the break-up of Google, citing its dominance in the tech industry.

A proposal to tax unrealised gains has sparked fury from Silicon Valley's elite investors. The plan, backed by US vice-president Kamala Harris, aims to raise $5tn over a decade and would tax individuals with more than $100mn in wealth on their income and unrealised capital gains. This would affect billionaires like Elon Musk and Mark Zuckerberg. Venture capitalists and founders of successful start-ups would also be impacted, with some facing potential tax bills running into billions of dollars. The proposal has been met with opposition from tech executives and investors who argue it would stifle entrepreneurship and innovation. **Taxing unrealised gains** could have far-reaching consequences for the tech industry and its wealthiest individuals.

Brazil's top court has ordered the suspension of Elon Musk's X, a social media platform, amid a feud between Musk and Justice Alexandre de Moraes over accounts linked to far-right figures. De Moraes ruled that users who attempt to bypass the block using virtual private networks (VPNs) will face daily fines of **$8,000**. Musk has criticized de Moraes for censorship, while the justice argues it's necessary to protect democracy from misinformation and hateful content. The ban has sparked global debate over freedom of expression vs online safety.

**Telegram's Financial Future in Doubt**

Telegram's hopes for a lucrative IPO have been hit by criminal charges against CEO Pavel Durov, with the company's bondholders facing steep losses. Durov faces preliminary charges in France over alleged failure to address criminality on the app, including one punishable by up to 10 years in prison. This development is catastrophic for Telegram, which has been ramping up monetization efforts and introducing subscriptions and advertising offerings ahead of a possible stock market listing by 2026. The company's bond prices have fallen nearly 10%, and it remains unclear how Durov will continue to operate the platform.

**President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has fired the commander of the Ukrainian air force, Lieutenant General Mykola Oleschuk, following the crash of a US-made F-16 jet that killed one of Kyiv's top fighter pilots, Lt Col Oleksiy Mes.**
*The removal marks the third shuffle of a top military post in less than a year.*
**An investigation is underway to determine the cause of the crash, with officials citing possible causes including pilot and mechanical error or friendly fire.**
**A Ukrainian MP accused Oleschuk of misconduct and covering up an incident of "friendly fire", but he denied these claims, saying that the US was helping Kyiv investigate the F-16 crash.**

Nvidia's shares fell by over 6% on Thursday, wiping out almost $200bn from its market value. Despite revenue more than doubling in the last quarter, the chipmaker's earnings report failed to meet Wall Street's high expectations. Revenue for the three months to July 28 was $30bn, up 122% from a year ago, but this was the smallest relative beat in six quarters. Nvidia seeks to reassure investors that it will see several billion dollars in revenue this fiscal year from its next-generation AI chips.

The Federal Reserve's preferred inflation measure, the personal consumption expenditures price index (PCE), remained steady at 2.5% in July, meeting economists' expectations. This data paves the way for the US central bank to start cutting interest rates next month. The "core" PCE, which excludes volatile food and energy costs, also held at 2.6%. The Fed's target inflation rate is 2%. These figures are seen as a boost to the Biden administration and Vice-President Kamala Harris's presidential campaign, providing evidence that inflation is easing.

Bill Ackman is reviving his initial public offering (IPO) for Pershing Square USA by offering incentives to early investors. The billionaire hedge fund manager initially withdrew the IPO after cutting the fundraising target from $25bn to $2bn due to weak demand. Ackman has discussed options, including gifting early investors rights to buy extra shares in the future at a fixed price through warrants. A structure combining shares with another security would resemble a special purpose acquisition company (Spac). The IPO is expected to be revived by the end of this year to maintain momentum. **Ackman aims to capitalize on his social media presence and reputation to drum up interest for Pershing Square USA stock**.

The UK's £1bn competition to replace its ageing Puma support helicopters is in disarray after two bidders, Airbus and Lockheed Martin, withdrew at the last minute. The two companies cited inability to submit viable offers that met customer requirements and provided adequate returns on investment. Only Leonardo UK remains in the contest with its AW149 helicopter, which has met the Ministry of Defence's requirements for social value and industrial contribution. The new Labour government will now decide whether to award the contract to Leonardo or scrap the programme as part of its strategic defence review. **The fate of the programme hangs in balance**

Sotheby's has reported a significant decline in earnings, with an 88% plunge in core earnings and a 25% drop in auction sales. The company's financial pressure is due to weaker luxury spending in China affecting demand for fine art. A marquee auction fell short of expectations, and the company's parent, BidFair, has raised $1bn through a capital raise with Abu Dhabi-based sovereign wealth fund ADQ. Sotheby's will use $700mn from the raise to reduce its leverage, but still carries over $1bn in net long-term debt.

US national security adviser Jake Sullivan met with Chinese leaders, including President Xi Jinping, to reassure them that Vice-President Kamala Harris would **"responsibly manage"** the relationship between Washington and Beijing if she wins the presidential election. Sullivan emphasized that Harris shares President Biden's view on maintaining high-level communication to avoid conflict or confrontation. The meetings covered issues like Taiwan, the South China Sea, and cooperation on curbing illicit drug trafficking. Sullivan also stressed the importance of maintaining peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait.

China's use of renminbi (RMB) in cross-border transactions has reached a record high, with 53% of inbound and outbound transactions using the currency in July. This surge is attributed to closer ties with Russia and US sanctions limiting dollar transactions after Ukraine's invasion. China has also opened currency swap lines with Saudi Arabia, Argentina, and Mongolia, and established new clearing banks for RMB in several countries.

**The renminbi's share of global trade finance remains low at 4.74%, but its use is expected to increase due to alternative payment systems.**

China's efforts to internationalize the renminbi are not aimed at competing with the US dollar, but rather to reduce dependence on it and gain autonomy in global transactions.

The Maldives' debt has slumped after Fitch Ratings downgraded its rating for the second time in two months due to a deepening financial crisis. The country's sukuk bonds fell to 71 cents on the dollar as the rating agency flagged "intensified pressures" over plummeting currency reserves. **The Maldives borrowed heavily from China and India, making it a showcase for rivalry between the two Asian powers**. President Mohamed Muizzu has appealed to both countries for bailouts, but Fitch warns that support would likely be contingent on debt restructuring.

OpenAI is discussing changes to its corporate structure to become more investor-friendly as it raises funds at a valuation of over $100bn. The company, which has a unique non-profit structure, is considering simplifying this setup to make it more attractive to financial backers. This comes as OpenAI pushes ahead with a multibillion-dollar fundraise, led by Thrive Capital, and seeks to retain its lead over Google and other rivals. **OpenAI's current structure was designed to ensure alignment with its mission of benefiting humanity**.

EY has handed out lower pay rises and bonuses to thousands of staff in its UK tax division, amidst a market slowdown. Staff received a 2.2% base salary increase, down from 6% in 2023 and 10% in 2022. Bonuses were also lower for the year, with some tax partners being dismissed. The move reflects EY's efforts to restrict year-end payouts after a challenging period for the industry. **Tax advisory staff bonuses ranged from £500 to £4,000**, while partner pay was £761,000 last year. The firm is selecting a new senior partner to lead its UK business amidst these changes.

Online dating giants are developing AI-powered "wingmen" to help users craft better chat-up lines and develop a budding romance. Tinder, Hinge, Bumble, and Grindr are building or testing AI tools and chatbot assistants to generate icebreakers, provide feedback on user flirting, and offer personalized advice. **These companies aim to alleviate dating app fatigue** among younger users, who have experienced burnout due to repeated failures to find a good match. The goal is to use AI to support daters throughout the entire dating journey and make better connections.

Goldman Sachs is planning to cut a few hundred employees as part of its annual performance review process. The cuts, expected across the bank, could start in the next few weeks and take a few months to complete. This is on top of the 44,400 employees already working at Goldman Sachs worldwide. Despite this, the bank plans to continue hiring and expects to have a higher overall headcount by the end of this year. **Goldman's shares are up over 30% this year**, and the bank has won a reprieve from Federal Reserve stress tests that could free up over $100mn for lending or trading activities.

Turkey's stock market rally has faltered due to high interest rates luring savers away from equities. The Istanbul Bist 100 index dropped 8% in August, with foreign investors pulling $2.4bn since May. Local investors are turning to bank deposits and money market funds, which offer higher returns than stocks. Foreign investors, who had recently increased their holdings, are now exiting the market. Policymakers are expected to unveil a medium-term economic plan, which will be crucial in determining the outlook for Turkish stocks. **High interest rates and changing investor sentiment have dented Turkey's stock market momentum**.

BC Partners' credit arm has invested in sports agency GSE Worldwide, providing capital for expansion through new preferred equity and debt. The deal values the business but the figure is unknown. This investment comes amid growing interest in sports investment by alternative asset managers, with recent deals including Silver Lake's purchase of Endeavor Group and the Pinault family's majority stake in Creative Artists Agency. GSE Worldwide represents top athletes in golf, tennis, and football, generating lucrative commissions for agents. The partnership aims to expand beyond traditional sports into new verticals of talent management.

Donald Trump has stated he will vote against an amendment to Florida's state constitution guaranteeing abortion rights. This decision comes as Democrats and his White House bid face significant stakes on the issue. Trump had previously sent mixed signals, but now says he disagrees with a six-week ban due to "you need more time", while criticizing Democratic policies on abortion as "radical". His stance has been met with criticism from rival Kamala Harris, who says Trump will uphold an abortion ban before many women even know they are pregnant.

Germany has deported 28 Afghans for the first time since the Taliban's return to power in 2021, amidst a toughening of immigration policy following last Friday's terror attack in Solingen. **The deportees were convicted criminals who had no right to remain in Germany**. Refugee advocacy groups criticized the move, saying it would "normalise" an Afghan regime guilty of human rights abuses. The government argued that security interests outweighed protecting criminals and potential terrorists, with Qatar acting as a mediator for the expulsions.

---

### WORLD

- [Brazil’s top court orders suspension of Elon Musk’s X amid fight over accounts](https://ft.com/content/9cbcb5a4-50e3-4aa3-a8e3-2df1f03b48a9)🔥🔥🔥
- [Volodymyr Zelenskyy sacks air force chief after top pilot killed in F-16 crash](https://ft.com/content/1a9ed9df-857f-4bc3-a3dd-5d3de176c8e7)🔥
- [Federal Reserve’s preferred inflation measure held steady at 2.5% in July](https://ft.com/content/d349bd2e-c3a9-4d9d-b803-e51af9053b1a)🔥
- [Russia’s ‘overheating’ economy to slow sharply next year, says central bank](https://ft.com/content/553c50cf-aa2c-41bc-8f4c-f8f24cee2b1a)
- [Donald Trump says he will vote against abortion rights in Florida](https://ft.com/content/ebf76aea-fd66-4adf-8dcc-29848e46741c)😶
- [Germany deports Afghans for first time since Taliban’s return to power](https://ft.com/content/ac9ab4a1-ad5c-4f08-b63f-1e9017b86d16)😶

### US

- [Kamala Harris pitches for centre in first big TV interview as presidential candidate](https://ft.com/content/b5f3cc65-6d88-41e0-9c83-51a31c882cd8)🔥🔥🔥
- [JD Vance urges billionaire Peter Thiel to help bankroll Trump campaign](https://ft.com/content/52a7c7b8-945c-4357-af36-cea77645b164)🔥🔥🔥
- [US assures China that Kamala Harris would ‘responsibly manage’ ties ](https://ft.com/content/be95e0fa-f9ca-4c42-9dc3-dc57e5a57c56)
- [California’s divisive AI safety bill sets up tough decision for governor Gavin Newsom](https://ft.com/content/352b9cdb-9ed9-4dc9-94f3-115cab988c21)

### TECHNOLOGY

- [Silicon Valley’s elite rattled by prospect of tax on unrealised gains](https://ft.com/content/a074a9c7-a4c1-4f6b-a8fc-bd81fb7ac793)🔥🔥🔥
- [Telegram’s financial future in doubt as chief faces criminal inquiry](https://ft.com/content/429f9092-5447-4e4c-b3b6-ffa2bc357ca4)🔥🔥🔥
- [Dating apps develop AI ‘wingmen’ to generate better chat-up lines](https://ft.com/content/7df96597-8761-4315-8ac5-0d287c455de4)

### MARKETS

- [Nvidia valuation falls almost $200bn after earnings report](https://ft.com/content/4bd3ab1b-984f-44e7-9b40-43d0802d5672)🔥
- [Bill Ackman seeks to revive IPO with sweeteners for investors](https://ft.com/content/36206d82-a91d-43ba-9358-54c01c8d0315)🔥
- [China’s international use of renminbi surges to record highs](https://ft.com/content/ae08b6ed-d323-4a95-a687-0172a98857f4)
- [Maldives debt slumps after second Fitch downgrade ](https://ft.com/content/054d796d-4e05-45cd-9737-5eb6cae00643)
- [Chinese central bank’s $56bn debt purchase sparks talk of bond market intervention](https://ft.com/content/ba8e3844-ed6a-4689-b9dc-81579c39edcd)
- [Turkey’s blazing stock rally falters with high rates luring savers away](https://ft.com/content/f465340c-694c-4fbe-8ff5-1ffb80d4f859)

### COMPANIES

- [UK’s defence helicopter competition in disarray after two bidders withdraw](https://ft.com/content/91055b24-9718-469c-823e-3b40f3129a20)
- [Sotheby’s earnings plunge as art market catches a chill](https://ft.com/content/89fd2c65-0dfd-4f3b-b357-95d1c83c92c9)
- [OpenAI weighs changes to corporate structure amid latest funding talks](https://ft.com/content/841f6e58-b1bb-4c8e-bce0-a4c0b46ee2f8)
- [EY cuts pay rises and bonuses for UK tax staff after slower year ](https://ft.com/content/1751b8e9-ca1e-466e-8ba9-40b1c6050dbb)
- [Goldman Sachs to cut a few hundred staffers in annual performance review cull](https://ft.com/content/117bef61-3903-4e77-b2ef-0126acc663d9)
- [BC Partners buys a stake in sports agency GSE Worldwide](https://ft.com/content/d7ec7f40-89d6-4e03-ac07-c0abbe073a80)

