---
title: 2024-08-18
date: 2024-08-18
tags: 
- newsletter
author: HeadlineCapsule
aliases: 
- /HeadlineCapsule/daily/2024-08-18
---


# Harris Tax Plan Ukraine Evacuation Tech Water Consumption Surges 


##  The Latest on Tech, Economics, and Geopolitics

This week's news cycle is a whirlwind of activity, spanning from political campaigns to environmental concerns and the ever-evolving landscape of technology. Let's delve into three crucial stories shaping our world today.

## Kamala Harris Plans Tax Breaks for Families in 'Laser-Focused' Bid to Ease Cost of Living Crisis
Democratic presidential candidate Kamala Harris unveiled parts of her economic program, aiming to address the pressing issue of rising living costs. Her plan includes a $6,000 tax credit for families with newborn children and expanded existing credits for older children. She also proposes up to $25,000 in down payment assistance for first-time homebuyers. Harris's proposals directly challenge Republican rival Donald Trump's economic agenda, framing her approach as pro-middle class while criticizing Trump's focus on corporations and wealthy individuals.

## Ukraine Orders Evacuation in East Amid Steady Russian Gains
The situation in eastern Ukraine continues to escalate as Russia makes steady advances despite a Ukrainian counteroffensive in the Kursk region. Ukrainian authorities are urging residents near the front lines to evacuate, citing imminent danger from advancing Russian forces. In Donetsk, a Russian-controlled city, reports emerged of a deadly missile strike on a shopping mall, underscoring the brutal reality of the ongoing conflict. The Ukrainian military declined comment on the incident, while analysts highlight the strategic importance of both sides' moves in this crucial region.

## US Tech Groups’ Water Consumption Soars in ‘Data Centre Alley’
As artificial intelligence fuels explosive growth in computing infrastructure, concerns are mounting about the environmental impact of data centers. In Virginia's "data centre alley," water consumption by these facilities has surged almost two-thirds since 2019, according(to) data obtained by the Financial Times.  This trend raises critical questions about sustainability, especially given the increasing demand for power and cooling associated with AI development. While tech giants like Amazon, Google, and Microsoft are implementing measures to reduce water usage and promote recycling, the sheer scale of these facilities poses a significant challenge in water-stressed regions. 


---

Revolut, a UK-based fintech company, has secured a $45bn valuation through a share sale by employees. This valuation makes Revolt the most valuable start-up in Europe and the second-most valuable bank in the UK, behind only HSBC. The company recently secured a highly anticipated banking licence and is now considering an initial public offering (IPO). Revolut's CEO, Nikolay Storonsky, said that the share sale was a way for employees to realize the benefits of the company's collective success. **The valuation is higher than Revolt's previous $33bn fundraising in 2021**.

British retail sales rebounded in July, rising 0.5% from June, driven by increases in department stores and sports equipment shops. **Department store sales grew 4%**, while sports equipment sales rose 3.5%. However, clothing and household goods sales dropped 0.6%, and fuel sales declined 1.9%. Despite this, consumer spending is expected to continue strengthening as lower inflation bolsters real incomes and confidence. The recovery suggests the UK economy is "chugging along" with little sign of consumers cutting back.

PwC has been fined a record £15mn by the UK's financial regulator, the FCA, for failing to alert the watchdog to suspected fraudulent activity at London Capital & Finance (LCF). **The fine is the largest regulatory penalty imposed against PwC in the UK**. The accounting firm encountered significant issues during its 2016 audit of LCF, including a senior individual acting aggressively towards auditors and providing inaccurate information. PwC failed to report its suspicions of fraud to the FCA as soon as possible, which deprived the regulator of potentially vital information.

Fortnite is returning to iPhone and Android devices in EU, four years after its removal due to an antitrust fight with Apple and Google. The game's developer, Epic Games, credits the EU's Digital Markets Act for forcing digital gatekeepers to open up their platforms to rivals. Fortnite will be available through Epic Games Store and other alternative app stores. This move shows how EU regulation is affecting Big Tech giants and marks a shift in favor of developers.

**Epic Games CEO Tim Sweeney said:** "The tide is turning" as both Apple and Google come under pressure from regulators and courts around the world. The Digital Markets Act requires digital gatekeepers to change their business practices, including opening mobile operating systems to rival app stores. Failure to comply could result in fines of up to 10% of global turnover.

Bayer shares jumped 11% after a US appeals court ruled that the company did not violate state law by failing to add a cancer warning to its Roundup products. The court found that federal regulations superseded state law, meaning Bayer did not need to place a warning on the pesticide. This decision opens the door for Bayer to have the legal issue reviewed by the US Supreme Court. **Bayer maintains that Roundup is safe and cites scientific research in support of this view**. The company's stock price has been impacted by costly litigation over the herbicide since 2018.

An Israeli air strike in Lebanon killed **10 people**, including Syrian nationals, on Saturday. The strike targeted a weapons storage facility belonging to Hizbollah, an Iran-backed militant group. In response, Hizbollah launched rockets at Ayelet HaShahar in northern Israel. This exchange of fire came as US Secretary of State Antony Blinken was set to land in Israel to advance a deal to end the war between Israel and Hamas in Gaza. The talks aim to prevent the conflict from escalating into a regional war.

**US-led mediators present 'bridging proposal' to end Israel-Hamas war**

The US, Qatar, and Egypt have presented a proposal to bridge gaps between Israel and Hamas after months of deadlock in talks to end the war in Gaza. The proposal aims to secure a ceasefire and ease regional tensions amid fears of a broader conflagration. The mediators said they would meet in Cairo to conclude the deal, which includes the release of Israeli hostages and Palestinian prisoners. US officials expressed optimism about the progress made, but challenges remain due to deep distrust between Israel and Hamas. **A deal is close, but huge hurdles lie ahead**.

A fight broke out in Turkey's parliament on Friday, leaving three MPs injured. The brawl was sparked by a debate about jailed lawmaker Can Atalay, who was sentenced to 18 years in prison over his alleged role in the 2013 Gezi park demonstrations. **Tensions have intensified** between President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan's ruling party and an emboldened opposition, following the AKP's worst defeat since its founding in March local elections. The incident exposed the depth of political resentments in Turkey, where lawlessness has become a growing concern.

A federal court dismissed a racketeering lawsuit against former US bankruptcy judge Michael Van Deelen and two law firms, Jackson Walker and Kirkland & Ellis. The lawsuit alleged a conspiracy to bring cases to the judge's court in exchange for large fees. The defendants argued that plaintiff had not suffered financial losses as a result of the relationship between the judge and his girlfriend, who was also a lawyer at one of the firms. Despite dismissing the lawsuit, the chief judge criticized the former judge for not recusing himself from cases where he had a conflict of interest. **$13mn in fees are still being sought to be clawed back** by the Department of Justice agency, the US Trustee.

---

### WORLD

- [Kamala Harris plans tax breaks for families in ‘laser-focused’ bid to ease cost of living crisis](https://ft.com/content/fbd3699f-8b15-4504-be5e-3b7a0d0aee23)🔥🔥🔥
- [Ukraine orders evacuation in east amid steady Russian gains](https://ft.com/content/12fd40a6-4821-4d24-ac63-cb8a59373f5e)🔥🔥🔥
- [Israeli air strike kills 10 in Lebanon](https://ft.com/content/acc35b46-65b7-45bf-a83d-cbc8ad7c5f75)😶
- [US-led mediators present ‘bridging proposal’ to end Israel-Hamas war](https://ft.com/content/924f57cb-ad27-4c91-8a54-cdff8822a4b7)😶
- [Three MPs injured as fight breaks out in Turkey’s parliament](https://ft.com/content/340568a2-fe55-4cb7-9fba-e0c4dd2c01dc)😶

### US

- [US tech groups’ water consumption soars in ‘data centre alley’ ](https://ft.com/content/1d468bd2-6712-4cdd-ac71-21e0ace2d048)
- [Racketeering lawsuit against former top US bankruptcy judge dismissed ](https://ft.com/content/4d808f00-fa41-47eb-b243-379308358eaf)😶

### COMPANIES

- [Revolut secures $45bn valuation in share sale by employees](https://ft.com/content/16e03010-0a94-467f-a73f-87e9d773b60d)🔥🔥
- [British retail sales rebound in July ](https://ft.com/content/e90fb7a5-39e2-4859-bd03-0816ac3bd23d)
- [PwC fined record £15mn by FCA over London Capital & Finance ](https://ft.com/content/96f809ec-b109-41c7-8e3d-94543518fdc0)
- [‘Fortnite’ returns to iPhone and Android in EU after antitrust fight](https://ft.com/content/7c3fbb47-182b-4778-a5c9-6679386bd2d7)
- [Bayer shares jump after key US court win in Roundup litigation saga ](https://ft.com/content/442f76e8-8a5b-4ba5-adcc-763bca78e320)

