---
title: 2024-08-24
date: 2024-08-24
tags: 
- newsletter
author: HeadlineCapsule
aliases: 
- /HeadlineCapsule/daily/2024-08-24
---


# Global Markets React to Inflation Cooling and Rate Cut Signals 


# Global Markets Brace For Shifts Amidst Cooling Inflation and Emerging Opportunities

This week's market currents are driven by a confluence of forces, including the potential for interest rate cuts in the US, cooling inflation expectations across Europe, and intriguing opportunities emerging within Chinese debt markets. Buckle up as we delve into these timely developments and their implications for investors globally.


## Jay Powell Signals Readiness For Interest Rate Cuts

The Federal Reserve chair's recent speech at Jackson Hole has sent ripples through global markets. Jay Powell hinted that the time may be ripe for interest rate cuts, citing "downside risks" to employment as inflation pressures ease.  Market reactions were swift, with US Treasuries rallying and the dollar falling. This move aligns the Fed with many of its peers who are also easing monetary conditions in response to declining inflation.

> “The direction of travel is clear, and the timing and pace of rate cuts will depend on incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks." - Jay Powell

## Investors Temper Inflation Expectations Across Europe 

While concerns about stagflation remain, investors are increasingly focused on a demand-driven slowdown. This shift in sentiment has driven down long-term inflation expectations in Europe to their lowest levels since 2022. Cooling growth data and weakening wage pressures further fuel these expectations.  Analysts believe this trend is likely to persist, although factors like aging populations and fiscal demands may pose risks in the longer term.

> "Growth data has been on the weaker side and the disinflation trend seems intact." - Mohit Kumar, chief European strategist at Jefferies


## Emerging Market Investors Pile Into Chinese Bank Bonds

Despite Beijing's attempts to cool a soaring rally in government debt, global investors are finding opportunities within Chinese bank bonds. While foreign holdings of Chinese government bonds have declined, they have surged into short-term debt issued by Chinese banks, attracted by higher yields and the potential for currency gains. This strategy highlights the attractiveness of Chinese assets even amidst market fluctuations.

> "From a macro, fundamental perspective, there is still a lot of support for yields to go lower.” - Mark Evans, an analyst in Asian bonds and currencies at asset manager Ninety One


---

Robert F Kennedy Jr has suspended his campaign for the White House and endorsed Donald Trump, citing the Democratic party's alleged conspiracy against him. **He claims the party conspired to keep him out of the race and engaged in censorship and media control**. Kennedy had been polling at less than 5% and failed to secure a place on the ballot in many states. His endorsement could deliver a small boost to Trump's campaign, which has fallen behind Democratic rival Kamala Harris in national polls.

The US is warning countries that host Russian banks they risk secondary sanctions if they allow these banks to set up local branches and finance Russia's war efforts. The move aims to close loopholes used by Russia to circumvent sanctions on dual-use goods for its invasion of Ukraine. **US Deputy Treasury Secretary Wally Adeyemo** stated that the US will pursue countries allowing Russian bank branches, even if the bank itself is not under sanction. This is part of a series of rule changes to hinder Russia's imports of sensitive war-related goods.

The UK private sector activity grew more than expected in August, with a reading of 53.4 in the S&P Global Flash UK PMI composite output index, the highest since April and above forecasts. This led to a rise in sterling against the dollar and euro, indicating solid economic growth in the summer. The services sector reported easing inflationary pressures, while manufacturing and services sectors posted solid growth. GDP growth has rebounded strongly from last year's recession, with a 0.7% increase in the first quarter of this year. **Sterling reached a 13-month high against the dollar**, while businesses reported improving sales and job creation.

Jake Sullivan, US national security adviser, will visit China next week for talks with foreign minister Wang Yi. This is part of a broader effort to stabilize relations between the two superpowers. Tensions remain high over issues such as Taiwan and technology export controls. **Sullivan's visit is the first by a US national security adviser since 2016**. The White House expects Wang to ask about the US election, with Vice-President Kamala Harris replacing President Biden as the Democratic nominee. The two will discuss issues including Taiwan, technology policies, and China's support for Russia.

Microsoft plans to overhaul Windows security after a global IT outage caused by a botched CrowdStrike update affected 8.5 million devices. The tech giant is intensifying talks with partners to adapt security procedures and make Windows more resilient to buggy software. Critics say this is a concession of shortcomings in Windows' handling of third-party security software, but would also be controversial among security vendors who would have to make radical changes. **Microsoft may block access to the Windows kernel or demand new testing procedures from cyber security vendors**.

The US Department of Justice has accused RealPage, a real estate software company owned by Thoma Bravo, of allowing landlords to use algorithms to collude and keep rent high. The DoJ alleges that competing landlords shared non-public info with RealPage about their rental rates, which was then used to train the company's algorithmic pricing software. This affected around 3mn rented apartment units, eliminating the need for independent competition. **Americans should not have to pay more in rent because of a company's scheme to break the law**, said US Attorney-General Merrick Garland.

Nestlé has appointed Laurent Freixe as its new CEO, marking a return to choosing leaders from within the company's own ranks. This move comes after Mark Schneider stepped down after eight years, during which time he focused on M&A and new categories such as coffee and petcare. The board decided it was time for a cultural change due to recent earnings misses and operational mishaps. Freixe has 38 years of experience at Nestlé and will focus on driving top-line growth through market share gains and strengthening trust in key brands. **The company's shares fell 2.1% initially but have since recovered**.

Direct Line, a UK motor insurer, has admitted to an accounting error that led to an overstatement of its solvency measure. The company reported a 197% solvency ratio in March but later corrected it to 188%. This was due to "a miscalculation" which the company took action to correct and notified regulators about. **Shares were trading down nearly 2%** as a result. The error occurred despite an independent review of financial controls commissioned by new CEO Adam Winslow.

Grenada has triggered its first-ever "hurricane clause" to suspend bond payments, providing a test case for the effectiveness of these tools. The clause was inserted into Grenada's debt almost a decade ago and allows the government to pause interest payments when a disaster exceeds a $30mn threshold. This is seen as an alternative to expensive emergency borrowing or paying up for insurance in advance. The World Bank now offers two-year disaster pauses at no extra fee on new loans to island nations, and the IMF has detailed how it would treat these clauses alongside other climate change-linked bonds.

**Kioxia, a Japanese chipmaker, has applied for an initial public offering (IPO) on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, seeking to raise at least $500mn. The listing is expected to be Japan's biggest IPO this year and could value the company at over $10bn. Kioxia's net income in the April-June quarter was a record ¥70bn ($479mn), with annualized earnings of about ¥300bn. Bankers say market conditions are good, with Japanese stocks recovering from a recent crash and performing strongly this year.**

**Oil Tanker Explosion Threatens Red Sea Pollution**

A Yemeni Houthi attack on a Greek-owned oil tanker, Sounion, has threatened significant pollution in the Red Sea after it was deliberately blown up. The 274-meter-long ship carried 150,000 tonnes of crude oil, which is now at risk of spilling into the waterway. This marks a new tactic for the Houthis, who have previously sunk two ships but not blown up an abandoned vessel before. The EU's Operation Aspides naval force had warned about the navigational and environmental hazard posed by the drifting tanker.

The Bayesian superyacht, owned by Mike Lynch, sank off Sicily on Monday morning, resulting in the deaths of 7 people, including Lynch and his daughter Hannah. The incident is being investigated by Italian prosecutor Ambrogio Cartosio for potential offences, including **negligent shipwreck**. A total of 15 passengers and crew were rescued, with the final missing body recovered on Friday. The investigation is running in parallel to a probe by the UK Marine Accident Investigation Branch. **7 people confirmed dead**, including Lynch's wife Angela Bacares and his lawyer Christopher Morvillo.

**UN confirms first Gaza polio case in 25 years**

Gaza has reported its first polio case in 25 years, with a 10-month-old baby contracting the disease. The World Health Organization (WHO) and UN agencies are rushing to organize a polio vaccination campaign in the devastated Palestinian territory. **Every child under 10 should receive a shot** to protect against the virus, which can cause paralysis and death.

The poliovirus was detected in sewage samples collected from Gaza in June, and genomic sequencing linked it to a variant found in Afghanistan and Pakistan. The re-emergence of polio is attributed to the disruption of child vaccination programs and poor sanitation conditions in Gaza.

German Nato base Geilenkirchen was put on high alert for almost 24 hours due to intelligence warnings of potential Russian sabotage. The security lockdown, which included non-essential personnel being sent home, was a precautionary measure to ensure the safety of staff. Critical operations at the airbase continued as planned. This incident comes after another nearby military base in Cologne-Wahn went on alert earlier this month and follows a series of alleged sabotage attempts across Germany, believed to be orchestrated by Russian spies. **Nato's Awacs aerial reconnaissance fleet is based at Geilenkirchen**.

---

### WORLD

- [Robert Kennedy Jr drops long-shot bid for presidency and backs Donald Trump](https://ft.com/content/56a7e5a8-41d2-475a-99cf-1d2f3f969f0c)🔥🔥🔥
- [Jay Powell says ‘time has come’ for US interest rate cuts](https://ft.com/content/9a91b649-a701-4cc0-a0c0-3ab0b7be214d)🔥
- [Oil tanker explosion claimed by Houthis threatens Red Sea pollution](https://ft.com/content/7f886279-fecb-4410-b402-fbf85b9411b1)😶
- [Italian prosecutors probe ‘negligent shipwreck’ of Lynch’s superyacht](https://ft.com/content/7c878c65-e39b-4ebc-8c47-5b9ddf3206e6)😶
- [UN confirms first Gaza polio case in 25 years](https://ft.com/content/3174f177-7d42-4197-b468-8f879422e20e)😶
- [German Nato base on high alert over Russian sabotage threat](https://ft.com/content/4a3cba7d-1377-479e-8a09-4ef1d0f989a3)😶

### US

- [US threatens sanctions against countries hosting Russian banks](https://ft.com/content/7d6a40c5-fa19-4cd0-a214-d6deef53bae7)🔥
- [Jake Sullivan to make first China visit as US national security adviser](https://ft.com/content/6d2bb2d7-d948-46e1-8ea7-a2915fa52fdb)

### TECHNOLOGY

- [Japanese chipmaker Kioxia files for Tokyo’s biggest IPO of the year](https://ft.com/content/4fdc9030-dcde-47b1-a0a0-72e502ead799)

### MARKETS

- [Sterling rises after UK business activity grows more than expected](https://ft.com/content/f63bb28c-fb16-43ab-b91f-ab9a116233a3)🔥
- [Global investors pile into Chinese bank bonds](https://ft.com/content/bfb5be35-b1c0-4ad3-8816-f8877e5da17f)
- [Grenada triggers ‘hurricane clause’ to suspend bond payments](https://ft.com/content/06bdabb2-2abb-45ab-9ee4-94e1c328598f)
- [Investors’ expectations for European inflation fall to lowest since 2022](https://ft.com/content/284d893b-d4fb-4628-a526-5feb2768c14e)

### COMPANIES

- [Microsoft plans Windows security overhaul after CrowdStrike outage](https://ft.com/content/71f6551a-90c5-4ba5-b314-7f3b0c000551)
- [Thoma Bravo’s RealPage accused of using algorithms that drove rents higher](https://ft.com/content/20362015-5f2d-43ef-af9f-b68fa53a135b)
- [Nestlé returns to its own ranks for new leader charged with revival](https://ft.com/content/87b2a568-d1a6-4e33-a212-e365ef6e1b71)
- [Direct Line accounting error led to ‘miscalculation’ of solvency measure](https://ft.com/content/691b181f-0fd4-4127-85df-0ccea98c02d8)

